
                                 Love is ...

                            A Definitional Novel
                        in 4 expansions and 170007 words
                        
                        


To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament with its
stars; a bride with a large fortune. One of whom inquires can be made as to
the integrity, capacity, and the like, of another. Apposition; connection;
antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. a That which
terminates, circumscribes, restrains, or confines; the bound, border, or edge;
the utmost extent; as, the limit of a walk, of a town, of a country; the
limits of human knowledge or endeavor. Denoting nearness or distance, either
in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the
appointed time. The period at which any definite event occurred, or person
lived; age; period; era; as, the Spanish Armada was destroyed in the time of
Queen Elizabeth; -- often in the plural; as, ancient times; modern times.; as,
With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or
seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. an
A measure of distance traveled.; As a substance for any noun of the neuter
gender; as, here is the book, take it home. happened One who is in office; --
the opposite of out. See Thee. A wooden block shaped like the human foot, on
which boots and shoes are formed. A division of the Roman people formed
according to their property, for the purpose of voting for civil officers.; To
inclose; to take in; to harvest. all Of or belonging to me; -- used always
attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the
book is mine. See Mine. The potential principle, or force, by which the organs
of animals and plants are started and continued in the performance of their
several and cooperative functions; the vital force, whether regarded as
physical or spiritual.. A Freely; licentiously. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Worthy of consideration;
requiring to be observed, borne in mind, or attended to. A numeral; a word or
character denoting a number; as, to put a number on a door.. phrases, and To
denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance,
etc.; hence, on the side of. That which refers to something; a specific
direction of the attention; as, a reference in a text-book. Extent; limit;
degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of
three hundred. a The space or thing defined by limits. Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. To measure, as
in music or harmony.; as, With reference to circumstances or conditions; as,
he is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. an Fixed or appointed
time; conjuncture; a particular time or occasion; as, the hour of greatest
peril; the man for the hour.; As a substitute for such general terms as, the
state of affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with
the sick man? happened With reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he
is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. A wooden block shaped like the human
foot, on which boots and shoes are formed. A division of the Roman people
formed according to their property, for the purpose of voting for civil
officers.; The specific signification of in is situation or place with respect
to surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs
signifying being, resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or
conditions of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing,
either wholly or in part. In its different applications, it approaches some of
the meanings of, and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at,
of, and among. all Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, my
body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the book is mine. See
Mine. Figuratively: The potential or animating principle, also, the period of
duration, of anything that is conceived of as resembling a natural organism in
structure or functions; as, the life of a state, a machine, or a book;
authority is the life of government.. (usually Relating to, or containing,
more than one; designating two or more; as, a plural word.) an acquaintance
Ere; before; sooner than. acquaintances Originally, an interrogative pronoun,
later, a relative pronoun also; -- used always substantively, and either as
singular or plural.  See the Note under What, pron., 1.  As interrogative
pronouns, who and whom ask the question: What or which person or persons? Who
and whom, as relative pronouns (in the sense of that), are properly used of
persons (corresponding to which, as applied to things), but are sometimes,
less properly and now rarely, used of animals, plants, etc.  Who and whom, as
compound relatives, are also used especially of persons, meaning the person
that; the persons that; the one that; whosoever. are Exerting or possessing
influence or power; potent; efficacious; effective; strong; having authority
or ascendency; as, an influential man, station, argument, etc. Ere; before;
sooner than. With reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in
difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. a The state of being posited, or
placed; the manner in which anything is placed; attitude; condition; as, a
firm, an inclined, or an upright position. During; in the course of. Ability,
regarded as put forth or exerted; strength, force, or energy in action; as,
the power of steam in moving an engine; the power of truth, or of argument, in
producing conviction; the power of enthusiasm. and In a very general way, and
with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with
their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive
verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon
that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as,
these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. The objective case
of who.  See Who. The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. are having some relation. With reference to character, reach, scope,
or influence considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's
favor. A certain; one; -- indicating a person, thing, event, etc., as not
known individually, or designated more specifically; as, some man, that is,
some one man. The means by which anything is reached, or anything is
accomplished; scheme; device; plan. (as With, as means, way, process, etc.;
through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a
city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force.
Honorable descent; noble or respectable stock; as, a man of family. Ere;
before; sooner than. Kindly aid; help; assistance,); as, Any one; the man or
person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. 3d
pers. sing. pres. of Have. Large; capacious; -- said of veins of ore.
connections. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last
defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). To be the sign of; to betoken; to signify; to mean. association
With reference to a whole which includes or comprises the part spoken of; as,
the first in his family; the first regiment in the army. imp. amp p. p. of
Think., as Indicating the space or time through which an action or state
extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of. That to which, or
with which, a thing is compared, as being equal or like; illustration;
similitude. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. The opposition of varied forms, colors, etc., which by such
juxtaposition more vividly express each other's peculiarities.. A Free;
unembarrassed. Ere; before; sooner than. Worthy of consideration; requiring to
be observed, borne in mind, or attended to. To reckon as one of a collection
or multitude.. In different circumstances; under other conditions; as, I am
engaged, otherwise I would accept.. words, A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. A proposition; an exposition; a discourse.
Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her
mind. In a primary manner; in the first place; in the first place; in the
first intention; originally. indicates approach and arrival, Direction of
movement; course; tendency; as, the motion of the planets is from west to
east. having the sheets and blankets set in order; -- of a bed; as, is the bed
made?. With reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or
environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground;
to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. See Thee. That
which is imposed by directing; a guiding or authoritative instruction;
prescription; order; command; as, he grave directions to the servants.
Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is
done; by. a Reception; effect; -- implying the making room for. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A portion or
part; something. and attaining As an indefinite object after some intransitive
verbs, or after a substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i.
e., to walk)., access; and also, Direction of movement; course; tendency; as,
the motion of the planets is from west to east. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Direction or course toward
any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient influence to
bring about an effect or result. Outside of the house; out of doors. arrival;
Manner or style of moving; as, a slow, or quick, or sudden, movement.
Approaching; coming near.; -- characterized by active opposition; as, two
bitterly opposing schools of thought. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or
tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of
being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going
to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.. 3The nominal of
the second tone in the model major scale (that in C), or of the fourth tone in
the relative minor scale of C (that in A minor), or of the key tone in the
relative minor of F. A cloth of sky-blue color.. To make a small, shrill
sound; as, the air sings in passing through a crevice.. pres. During; in the
course of. To cause or procure to be; to effect; to exact; to desire; to
require.. a Strong; violent; forcible; as, a heavy sea, storm, cannonade, and
the like. To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or
consequence. Full of, or burdened by, import; charged with great interests;
restless; anxious. See Content, n., Importance; moment; weight; consequence.,
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A
discharge of flux, as of blood.; To become fulled or thickened; as, this
material fulls well. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning;
relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of many things.
Importance with respect to what comes after; power to influence or produce an
effect; value; moment; rank; distinction. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. results; Rigorous; severe;
afflictive.; as, Full of promise; abounding in ability, resources, etc.; as, a
pregnant youth. replies. To introduce a clause employed as the object of the
preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb. A
relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but
sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to
a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to
something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was
formerly used of persons. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
signified, Which (of two); which one (of two); -- used interrogatively and
relatively. Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the procession has
gone by; a bird flew by. act lanquage; That which is signified or made known;
that meaning which a sign, character, or token is intended to convey; as, the
signification of words.; Perception by the sensory organs of the body;
sensation; sensibility; feeling.; Merchandise imported, or brought into a
country from without its boundaries; -- generally in the plural, opposed to
exports.; as, By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. Sense; power of thinking. Denoting passage from one state to
another; from. a To bring to mind by a slight mention or remote allusion; to
suggest in an indirect manner; as, to hint a suspicion.., Before; sooner
than.; In presence or sight of; face to face with; facing.; In the western
United States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to
settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first
settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing
prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair
advantage. A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and
adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other,
otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the
nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the
objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a
preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually
introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want.. A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. The quotient
of a unit divided by three; one of three equal parts into which anything is
divided. A shoot or bud of a plant; a polyp or zooid of the compound Hydrozoa,
Anthozoa, etc.; also, an individual, in the narrowest sense, among the higher
animals. Existing by itself; single; individual. Denoting that by which a
person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or
action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself;
he did it of necessity. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. Betokening or expressing existence; as, the substantive verb,
that is, the verb to be. A word; a vocable. To signify; to represent or
symbolize; to answer to., To inclose; to take in; to harvest. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Suggestive; representing
the whole by a part, as a fleet by a ship, a forest by a tree, etc. Manner;
style; mode; logical form; musical style; manner of action or being. See Mode
which is the preferable form)., A present tense, or the form of the verb
denoting the present tense. One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection
or by adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or
event signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of
time.; as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually
followed by a relative pronoun. The third person singular of the substantive
verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See
Be.; The chemical symbol for helium. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. a One of the piece with which certain games, as chess or
draughts, are played..  To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon; as,
to see one home; to see one aboard the cars. To signify; to represent or
symbolize; to answer to.. used To denote a close or direct relation of
opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. a To hold apart; to stand
between; to intervene betwixt, as combatants. omitted; as, With a part
omitted; as, elliptically expressed. Communicated in words... To denote the
accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes equivalent to
by. Appeal. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a
husband to her mind. a A determining feature; a distinguishing characteristic;
a differentia. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number
or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to
spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. A particular
period or part of duration, whether past, present, or future; a point or
portion of duration; as, the time was, or has been; the time is, or will be.;
as, To inclose; to take in; to harvest. an The twenty-fourth part of a day;
sixty minutes.; As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is
the book, take it home. happened With reference to physical surrounding,
personal states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in
darkness; to live in fear. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. Farthest of all from a given quality, character,
or condition; most unlikely; having least fitness; as, he is the last person
to be accused of theft. A period of a hundred years; as, this event took place
over two centuries ago.; With reference to character, reach, scope, or
influence considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's favor.
all Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, my body; my book;
-- mine is used in the predicate; as, the book is mine. See Mine. The state of
being which begins with generation, birth, or germination, and ends with
death; also, the time during which this state continues; that state of an
animal or plant in which all or any of its organs are capable of performing
all or any of their functions; -- used of all animal and vegetable organisms..
a A A character or part, as in a play; a specific kind or manifestation of
individual character, whether in real life, or in literary or dramatic
representation; an assumed character. A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. A portion or part; something. Denoting that from
which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as,
he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. Importunity; solicitation.; a
A person unknown or uncertain; a person indeterminate; some person..
Designating Determined; resolved; -- used with an infinitive. Indicating an
unhealthy mental attitude or disposition; especially, abnormally gloomy, to an
extent not justified by the situation; preoccupied with death, disease, or
fear of death; as, a morbid interest in details of a disaster. conditions, as
Any discharge of blood from the blood vessels. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. An unnatural collection of
serous fluid in any serous cavity of the body, or in the subcutaneous cellular
tissue., stated precisely; -- of the meaning of words or concepts. Against.
The act or process of relaxing, or the state of being relaxed; as, relaxation
of the muscles; relaxation of a law. Denoting that by which a person or thing
is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as,
they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. See Thee. vessels and tissues, To denote association in respect of
situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of. Wanting, to make up
completeness; wanting, as regards a requirement; not sufficient; inadequate;
defective; imperfect; incomplete; lacking; as, deficient parts; deficient
estate; deficient strength; deficient in judgment. The quality or state of
being vital; the principle of life; vital force; animation; as, the vitality
of eggs or vegetable seeds; the vitality of an enterprise. and To be wanting;
often, impersonally, with of, meaning, to be less than, short, not quite, etc.
Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as,
the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate
of heaven. Backward tendency or movement after revolution, reform, or great
progress in any direction. One who is in office; -- the opposite of out. A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. affected
tissues. The act of perceiving; cognizance by the senses or intellect;
apprehension by the bodily organs, or by the mind, of what is presented to
them; discernment; apprehension; cognition. Among or in the midst of; -- used
to denote passage; as, a fish swims through the water; the light glimmers
through a thicket. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. The capacity for higher forms of knowledge, as distinguished
from the power to perceive objects in their relations; mental capacity.;
apprehension; The act of recognizing, or the state of being recognized;
acknowledgment; formal avowal; knowledge confessed or avowed; notice.;
Knowing; intelligent; skillful; as, he is an understanding man.; The power or
faculty of the mind by which it distinguishes one thing from another; power of
viewing differences in objects, and their relations and tendencies;
penetrative and discriminate mental vision; acuteness; sagacity; insight; as,
the errors of youth often proceed from the want of discernment.;
appreciation., To inclose; to take in; to harvest. The populace; the common
people; the majority of people, or of a community. phrases, and To inclose; to
take in; to harvest. That which connects or joins together; bond; tie. To
denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to
against. A retinue of servants; a household. Different from that which, or the
one who, has been specified; not the same; not identical; additional; second
of two. words, Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the
music of a piano. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. a Being with young, as a
female; having conceived; great with young; breeding; teeming; gravid;
preparing to bring forth. That which is signified, whether by act lanquage;
signification; sense; import; as, the meaning of a hint., Ere; before; sooner
than. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. used With a part
omitted; as, elliptically expressed.. Addition; union; accumulation. Manner;
rate; condition; state of health. The upper part of a lode, or the roof of a
horizontal underground passage. (By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a
case filled with combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or
to produce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.) At what time; --
used interrogatively. served.; With reference to space or place; as, he lives
in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the air. A large or considerable
number. phrases, and One who is in office; -- the opposite of out. a vehicle
in which one may continue a journey after debarking from another vehicle; the
departing vehicle of a connection{9}; as, my connection leaves four hours
after my arrival; I missed my connection. To denote simultaneous happening, or
immediate succession or consequence. Consisting of a great number; numerous;
not few. Alternate; second; -- used esp. in connection with every; as, every
other day, that is, each alternate day, every second day. words, In many
phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning,
or is used elliptically. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. a A pregnant woman.
Sense; power of thinking., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. used With a
part omitted; as, elliptically expressed.. Closely bound together; undivided;
united; constituting a whole. Denoting reference to a thing; about;
concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of
many things. One and one; twice one. constellations With reference to movement
or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to
into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put
our trust in God. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. Of or pertaining to the north; being in the north, or nearer to that
point than to the east or west. Half of the terrestrial globe, or a projection
of the same in a map or picture., called With respect; regardfully. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Large in space;
of much size; big; immense; enormous; expanded; -- opposed to small and
little; as, a great house, ship, farm, plain, distance, length. A person who
sells stocks or securities for future delivery in expectation of a fall in the
market. and See Thee. Less. To possess mentally; to carry or hold in the mind;
to entertain; to harbor, A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Either one of the Bears. See the Phrases below. Of greater
dignity; more important. and Either one of the Bears. See the Phrases below. A
Minorite; a Franciscan friar..; From this place; away., The neuter pronoun of
the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine
she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them). indicates A
puppet show or puppet., Customary or established sequence of events;
recurrence of events according to natural laws., Ere; before; sooner than.
Direction or course toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal
or efficient influence to bring about an effect or result. Near; at hand; in
state of preparation. a The duration of one's life; the hours and days which a
person has at his disposal., a To express the particulars of; to set down in
detail or in gross; to represent fully in words; to narrate; to recite; as, to
state the facts of a case, one's opinion, etc. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To make terms; to
stipulate., an aim, Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. anything Possessing ability, qualification, or
susceptibility; having capacity; of sufficient size or strength; as, a room
capable of holding a large number; a castle capable of resisting a long
assault. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. An abode; a
cottage. regarded as a A determining feature; a distinguishing characteristic;
a differentia. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last
defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). a Direction or course toward any place, object, effect, or
result; drift; causal or efficient influence to bring about an effect or
result., The act of moving in space; change of place or posture; motion; as,
the movement of an army in marching or maneuvering; the movement of a wheel or
a machine., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. action; as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and
usually followed by a relative pronoun. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. The act of moving in any manner; traveling; as, the going is
bad. Addition; union; accumulation. a To have dealings; to be concerned or
associated; -- usually followed by with.; Any one; the man or person; -- used
indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. The act of one who, or that which, rises (in
any sense). Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his
ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice
of the state. In the private sense, all property which has a money value. and
A token of esteem paid to worth; a mark of respect; a ceremonial sign of
consideration; as, he wore an honor on his breast; military honors; civil
honors.. Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin;
he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of
the state. To suffer, as in carrying a burden. See Withe. A kind of dock
(Rumex Patientia), less common in America than in Europe; monk's rhubarb.;
Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or
condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a
tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to
wealth and honor. To feel, or endure, with pain, annoyance, etc.; to submit to
with distress or grief; to undergo; as, to suffer pain of body, or grief of
mind. Out of the limits of; out of reach of; beyond. Repugnance; contrariety
of sentiment, interest, or purpose; antipathy. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. On or at the outside of;
out of; not within; as, without doors. a. amp n. from Sink. In a lower,
subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; -- used chiefly in a few
idiomatic phrases; as, to bring under, to reduce to subjection; to subdue; to
keep under, to keep in subjection; to control; to go under, to be
unsuccessful; to fail; to go bankrupt. See Thee. Impression; stamp; character
impressed. Ere; before; sooner than. affliction; Accord; adaptation; as, an
occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. Barley; the six-rowed
barley or the four-rowed barley, commonly the former (Hordeum hexastichon or
Hordeum vulgare). Aside, so as not to be in use; as, to lay up riches; put up
your weapons. In a lower, subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; --
used chiefly in a few idiomatic phrases; as, to bring under, to reduce to
subjection; to subdue; to keep under, to keep in subjection; to control; to go
under, to be unsuccessful; to fail; to go bankrupt.; In a very general way,
and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs
with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or
passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. A
prostitute. Inclining up; tending or going up; upward; as, an up look; an up
grade; the up train. To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or
hostility; -- equivalent to against.; Addition; union; accumulation. To suffer
to be, or to be done, without prohibition or hindrance; to allow or permit
negatively, by not preventing; not to restrain; to put up with; as, to
tolerate doubtful practices..; Accompaniment; as, A woman; a female; -- used
substantively. imp. of Sing. Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was
flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist
to the prejudice of the state. Belonging or pertaining to him; -- used as a
pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers are ready;
formerly used also for its, but this use is now obsolete. A stringed
instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger, and having
six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of catgut, --
played upon with the fingers.; The plural of he, she, or it. They is never
used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to
persons without an antecedent expressed. danced Effect; end; consequence; as,
the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent
factions exist to the prejudice of the state. By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The science and the art of tones,
or musical sounds, i. e., sounds of higher or lower pitch, begotten of uniform
and synchronous vibrations, as of a string at various degrees of tension; the
science of harmonical tones which treats of the principles of harmony, or the
properties, dependences, and relations of tones to each other; the art of
combining tones in a manner to please the ear. Denoting the material of which
anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword
of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. a A well-known musical instrument
somewhat resembling the harpsichord, and consisting of a series of wires of
graduated length, thickness, and tension, struck by hammers moved by keys..
acknowledge; Space or degree to which a thing is extended; hence, superficies;
compass; bulk; size; length; as, an extent of country or of line; extent of
information or of charity.; A determinate quantity, to which a variable one
continually approaches, and may differ from it by less than any given
difference, but to which, under the law of variation, the variable can never
become exactly equivalent.; Measure of advancement; quality; extent; as,
tastes differ in kind as well as in degree. Denoting possession or ownership,
or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the
power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. The complement of
attributes which make up the notion signified by a general term.; The act of
including, or the state of being included; limitation; restriction; as, the
lines of inclusion of his policy. as In a great proportion; by many degrees;
very much; deeply; greatly. as; as, The plural of he, she, or it. They is
never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers
to persons without an antecedent expressed. p. p. of Mete, to dream. The
persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of
we. See We. Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his
ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice
of the state. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. To amount; to equal in number; to contain; to consist of; as,
the army numbers fifty thousand. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole;
belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this
little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the
company. A symbol representing three units, as 3 or iii. Ten times ten; five
score; as, a hundred dollars.. accept. As a Expressing, or apt to express,
much; displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her nature was demonstrative. A
word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The
personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and
they. (pl. The plural of that. See That.), As an adjective, that has the same
demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun. usually points
To give out; to dispose of; to sell., Ere; before; sooner than. refers Accord;
adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind., a
To represent as a person; to personify; to impersonate. Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Whatever may be
possessed or owned; a property; -- distinguished from person. Beforehand;
antecedently; as, a plan previously formed. mentioned, Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. supposed Comparison; as,
three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will
offend him. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. imp.
amp p. p. of Understand.. As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was that
frightened he could say nothing., as a Expressing, or apt to express, much;
displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her nature was demonstrative., Ability,
competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. To go before in
order of time; to occur first with relation to anything. See Thee. A word used
as the designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or
in thought; a substantive. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency
toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being
regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a
trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. A compound relative or indefinite
pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the .
. . which, and the like; as, take which you will. The neuter pronoun of the
third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she,
and having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them). refers; as, To
introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the
reason that, because. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and
adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an
individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it?
which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take;
which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. The
chemical symbol for helium. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. Before-mentioned;
already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style. The
third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Steady in adhering to friends,
to promises, to a prince, or the like; unwavering; faithful; loyal; not false,
fickle, or perfidious; as, a true friend; a wife true to her husband; an
officer true to his charge.; The plural of that. See That. With reference to
space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the
air. See Thee. The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital. are To manure; to
improve. apples. A Composed of two or more elements, ingredients, parts;
produced by the union of several ingredients, parts, or things; composite; as,
a compound word. A relative pronoun; a word which relates to, or represents,
another word or phrase, called its antecedent; as, the relatives
ldquowhordquo, ldquowhichrdquo, ldquothatrdquo. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Boundless; infinite. A word
used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal
pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they., Not
transitory; not liable to fade or vanish; lasting; as, a standing color.
Indicating that instead of which something else controls in the performing of
an action, or that in spite of which anything is done, occurs, or is; hence,
equivalent to notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally followed by all,
aught, anything, etc. any Single in kind; the same; a common. A compound
relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that
which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will.,
Whether one or another; whether one or the other; which; that one (of two or
more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will lead you to town., As a
conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun. A
interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct
and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing
among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is
the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to
die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1., The plural of that. See That. A
relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but
sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to
a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to
something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was
formerly used of persons., A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. . . . A compound relative or indefinite pronoun,
standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the . . .
which, and the like; as, take which you will., and A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. That which is equal or similar to
another; the counterpart; an exact resemblance; a copy.; as, To move or direct
the course; to resort; to betake one's self; to proceed; to go; -- usually
with to; as, the fox, being hard pressed, took to the hedge. Of what sort or
kind; what; what a; who. The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. To form a distinct volition of; to determine by an act of
choice; to ordain; to decree.. Fetters. The burden or chorus of a song. a The
upper third part of the field. It is supposed to be composed of the dexter,
sinister, and middle chiefs. Relative place or standing; social or official
rank; as, a person of position; hence, office; post; as, to lose one's
position.; Uplifted; high; lofty; also, animated; noble; as, elevated
thoughts.: Fig.: Elevated in character, rank, dignity, spirit, bearing,
language, etc.; exalted; noble; stately; characterized by pride; haughty.:
Being, metaphorically, above others, whether by birth, high station, merit, or
virtue; high in public estimation; distinguished; conspicuous; as, an eminent
station; an eminent historian, statements, statesman, or saint.; Marked;
special.; First in time or place; most advanced; chief in rank or dignity; as,
the foremost troops of an army.; The construction which gives shape and
strength to a roof, -- generally a truss of timber or iron, but there are
roofs with stone principals. Also, loosely, the most important member of a
piece of framing.; as, Large in number; numerous; as, a great company,
multitude, series, etc. A man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and
corresponding to the present indefinite one or they.; A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Older, younger, or more remote,
by single generation; -- often used before grand to indicate one degree more
remote in the direct line of descent; as, great-grandfather (a grandfather's
or a grandmother's father), great-grandson, etc. To mark with a stamp, as an
evidence of standard exactness, legal size, or merchantable quality; as, to
seal weights and measures; to seal silverware.; By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Endowed with extraordinary powers;
uncommonly gifted; able to accomplish vast results; strong; powerful; mighty;
noble; as, a great hero, scholar, genius, philosopher, etc. To dispose in due
order, as the different quarterings on an escutcheon, or the different crests
when several belong to an achievement., etc. Whatever; whatsoever; what thing
soever; -- used indefinitely. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. Strong wish or inclination; desire; purpose.
dictates A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write,
-- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade.
prefers as occasioning pride; as, a gratifying accomplishment. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. satisfying; From
this reason; therefore; -- as an inference or deduction., The choice or
determination of one who has authority; a decree; a command; discretionary
pleasure.; The thing or person chosen; that which is approved and selected in
preference to others; selection.; Desire; eager desire; longing.; That which a
person sets before himself as an object to be reached or accomplished; the end
or aim to which the view is directed in any plan, measure, or exertion; view;
aim; design; intention; plan.. A A subordinate word that is never inflected (a
preposition, conjunction, interjection); or a word that can not be used except
in compositions; as, ward in backward, ly in lovely. As a conjunction, that
retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun. marks an alternative;
as, The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective
case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye.
Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. Reading.
Ere; before; sooner than. The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one
days. To make known by writing; to record; to prove by one's own written
testimony; -- often used reflexively., -- As a demonstrative pronoun (pl.
Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing previously
mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede
the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has said is true; those in the
basket are good apples. The third person singular of the substantive verb be,
in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The
pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case,
indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. A maiden.
To perform, as an action; to execute; to transact to carry out in action; as,
to do a good or a bad act; do our duty; to do what I can. Pointing out a
contrast, or denoting a particular thing or person different from some other
specified; -- used as a correlative adjective, with or without the. Denoting
that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the
like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. See Thee. things at
The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you. To take pleasure;
to seek pursue pleasure; as, to go pleasuring., A thrust in fencing. Shorn;
shaven. As well; not only; equally..  As a demonstrative, especially at the
beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named,
or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it
was John. corresponds Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced
to the music of a piano. Each of two; the one and the other; both; --
formerly, also, each of any number..  The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The fifth month of the year, containing
thirty-one days. To be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse. Either
precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to
an alternative. It is correlative to or. In a very general way, and with
innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their
remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs
with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that
of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these
remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. The capital city of
England. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small
dots. Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. A town in Berkshire, England..  As a substitute for such general terms
as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it
with the sick man? Frequently; many times; not seldom. connects a A number of
things or events standing or succeeding in order, and connected by a like
relation; sequence; order; course; a succession of things; as, a continuous
series of calamitous events. Denoting that from which anything proceeds;
indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of
kings; he is of noble blood. words A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. propositions, presenting a The thing or person
chosen; that which is approved and selected in preference to others;
selection. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin,
source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble
blood. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but
sometimes of a larger number, for any one.; as, The chemical symbol for
helium. The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. A piece for
special practice. See Etude. In general, a rule of being or of conduct,
established by an authority able to enforce its will; a controlling
regulation; the mode or order according to which an agent or a power acts.,
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
Hence, a similar object or agency among other savages., Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Something divine or
superhuman; supernatural power or virtue; something which inspires awe., A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Any one; the
man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative
pronoun. Contingency or liability; possibility or probability. To file or
inscribe upon the records of the land office the required particulars
concerning (a quantity of public land) in order to entitle a person to a right
of preeumlmption. Expressing entrance, or a passing from the outside of a
thing to its interior parts; -- following verbs expressing motion; as, come
into the house; go into the church; one stream falls or runs into another;
water enters into the fine vessels of plants. imp. of Tread.. As a
conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun. A
compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which,
whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take
which you will. Fetters. Superior; admirable; commanding; -- applied to
thoughts, actions, and feelings. The gratification of the senses or of the
mind; agreeable sensations or emotions; the excitement, relish, or happiness
produced by the expectation or the enjoyment of something good, delightful, or
satisfying; -- opposed to pain, sorrow, etc. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. That which gives great
pleasure or delight... A An Having only one principle or constituent part;
consisting of a single element; simple; uncompounded; as, an elementary
substance. An elementary particle.. Character; condition of being; purpose
subserved or office filled. To put (something into a place); to insert; as, to
introduce the finger, or a probe., a To find by logical processes; to explain
or justify by reason or argument; -- usually with out; as, to reason out the
causes of the librations of the moon. A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. A suit or action in court; any legal process by
which a party endeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right;
case; ground of action.; -- Something equivalent; that which is equal in
value, worth, weight, or force; as, to offer an equivalent for damage done. In
a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
Indicating that in the character of or as being which anything is regarded or
treated; to be, or as being. As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who
or which, serving to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken
of, or alluded to, before, and may be either singular or plural., A
reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he
was that frightened he could say nothing., Indicating that in favor of which,
or in promoting which, anything is, or is done; hence, in behalf of; in favor
of; on the side of; -- opposed to against. By that; by how much; by so much;
on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in
sin, the more difficult it is to reform. To converse; to compare opinions. As
a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a
person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a
demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has
said is true; those in the basket are good apples., By or for the cause that;
on this account that; for the reason that.. marks an alternative; as, By that;
by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. A word used
instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal
pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they.
Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is
done; by. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly applied to the alto.
One of three relations or conditions (that of speaking, that of being spoken
to, and that of being spoken of) pertaining to a noun or a pronoun, and thence
also to the verb of which it may be the subject., One who is in office; -- the
opposite of out. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. The nominative case., Noting the case of a noun which expresses
the remoter object, and is generally indicated in English by to or for with
the objective., and Same as Objective point, under Objective, a. To strip the
skin from; as, to case a box., indicating A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. To represent as a person; to personify; to
impersonate. Ere; before; sooner than. persons addressed.  To perceive by the
eye; to have knowledge of the existence and apparent qualities of by the
organs of sight; to behold; to descry; to view. See Thee. A diplomatic missive
or written communication. Denoting relation to something that exceeds in rank
or degree, in number, size, weight, age, or the like; in a relation of the
less to the greater, of inferiority, or of falling short. The plural of the
pronoun of the second person in the nominative case.. By that; by how much; by
so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. flowers Denoting nearness
or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time. See Thee. A thorny shrub or tree (the
Crataegus oxyacantha), having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small, roselike,
fragrant flowers, and a fruit called haw.  It is much used in Europe for
hedges, and for standards in gardens.  The American hawthorn is Crataegus
cordata, which has the leaves but little lobed.; -- The case being such;
therefore; on this account; for this reason; on these terms; -- used both as
an adverb and a conjuction. called Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or
losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. The possessive case
of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. The period at
which any definite event occurred, or person lived; age; period; era; as, the
Spanish Armada was destroyed in the time of Queen Elizabeth; -- often in the
plural; as, ancient times; modern times. Denoting identity or equivalence; --
used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition;
as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. the
process of budding and unfolding of blossoms.; also, A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A thorny shrub or tree (the
Crataegus oxyacantha), having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small, roselike,
fragrant flowers, and a fruit called haw.  It is much used in Europe for
hedges, and for standards in gardens.  The American hawthorn is Crataegus
cordata, which has the leaves but little lobed.. Accompaniment; as, she sang
to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. To discharge; to fulfill;
to act up to; as, to perform a duty; to perform a promise or a vow. By that;
by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. act Denoting
nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of
the town; within an hour of the appointed time. Addicted to reading; as, a
reading community.; Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she
has a husband to her mind. To observe; to examine with care., Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Addition; union;
accumulation. To proceed or tend toward a result, consequence, or product; to
tend; to conduce; to be an ingredient; to avail; to apply; to contribute; --
often with the infinitive; as, this goes to show. Excessively; too much or too
greatly; -- chiefly used in composition; as, overwork, overhasty, overeager,
overanxious, overreact, overcook. and Situated on the outside, or extreme
limit; remote from the center; outer. aloud, See Thee. words Denoting identity
or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the
relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the
Island of Cuba. a a book or list, actual or hypothetical, containing records
of the best performances in some endeavor; a recordbook; -- used in the phrase
one for the book or one for the books. A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Either; -- used with other or or for its
correlative (as either . . . or are now used). To have an appearance or
expression; to look; to seem to be (in a specified condition). An original or
official paper relied upon as the basis, proof, or support of anything else;
-- in its most extended sense, including any writing, book, or other
instrument conveying information in the case; any material substance on which
the thoughts of men are represented by any species of conventional mark or
symbol.. A An elementary particle. To introduce, a reason or cause; --
equivalent to for that, in that, for the reason that, because. marks an
alternative; as, The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. The merrymaking of May Day. Instructed or knowing by reading; versed
in books; learned. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or
may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. Contingency or liability; possibility or probability. To set down for
reading; to express in legible or intelligible characters; to inscribe; as, to
write a deed; to write a bill of divorcement; hence, specifically, to set down
in an epistle; to communicate by letter., -- To introduce a purpose; --
usually followed by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to
the end, etc. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun
of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case,
indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Ability,
competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. To see or
inspect; to explore; as, to do all the points of interest. Being a single
unit, or entire being or thing, and no more; not multifold; single;
individual. During; in the course of. See Thee. things at The form of the
possessive case of the personal pronoun you. That which pleases; a favor; a
gratification., A piece of land left unplowed at the end of a field. A word
used to express negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal. The one and the
other; the two; the pair, without exception of either..  As an indefinite
object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously
as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). corresponds Accompaniment; as, she
sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. Each of two; the one
and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number..  The pronoun of
the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating
the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Desire or wish, as in
prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. To be carried on the back of
an animal, as a horse. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of
two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. Apposition;
connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. The capital
city of England. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they
met us to the number of three hundred. A town in Berkshire, England..  As a
substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it
home. Frequently; many times; not seldom. connects a In Engler's system of
plant classification, a group of families showing certain structural or
morphological relationships. It corresponds to the cohort of some writers, and
to the order of many modern systematists. Denoting the material of which
anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword
of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. words Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. propositions, presenting a
The best part; that which is preferable. During; in the course of. Each of
two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number.; as,
Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a
relative pronoun. An auxiliary verb qualifying the meaning of another verb, A
building or apartment devoted to study or to literary work. In philosophy and
physics: A rule of being, operation, or change, so certain and constant that
it is conceived of as imposed by the will of God or by some controlling
authority; as, the law of gravitation; the laws of motion; the law heredity;
the laws of thought; the laws of cause and effect; law of self-preservation.,
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
Among the North American Indians, any object supposed to give control over
natural or magical forces, to act as a protective charm, or to cause healing;
also, magical power itself; the potency which a charm, token, or rite is
supposed to exert., Ere; before; sooner than. A celestial being, inferior to
the supreme God, but superior to man., A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. The man or male being (or object personified to
which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of
the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already
indicated. The merrymaking of May Day. To unite in; to join; to be admitted
to; to become a member of; as, to enter an association, a college, an army. To
the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of applications. A company of
men engaged in the same occupation; thus, booksellers and publishers speak of
the customs of the trade, and are collectively designated as the trade.. See
Thee. The act of making merry; conviviality; merriment; jollity. Denoting
reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's
achievements; they talked of many things. Modesty, courtesy, or concession, or
a desire to soften a question or remark. The time of light, or interval
between one night and the next; the time between sunrise and sunset, or from
dawn to darkness; hence, the light; sunshine; -- also called daytime.. Extent;
limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the
number of three hundred. The ribs and stretchers of an umbrella or other
structure with a fabric covering. Ere; before; sooner than. In the game of
casino, to play a card which will take two or more cards whose aggregate
number of pips equals those of the card played. ideas, and To denote; to
designate. The objective case of they. See They. With reference to physical
surrounding, personal states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the
room is in darkness; to live in fear. p. p. of Write, v. words; Comparison;
as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you
will offend him. Motion; movement, regular or irregular; as, the play of a
wheel or piston; hence, also, room for motion; free and easy action. See Thee.
author; In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a
pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To tell over; to go over in
particulars; to relate; to narrate; as, to recite past events; to recite the
particulars of a voyage. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. To ally by connection or kindred. With privilege or
possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by
descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. books; Hence, it
indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an
aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement,
or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. To
form by putting together two or more things or parts; to put together; to make
up; to fashion.., -- In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To produce; to cause to exist; to
induce., a Ratio; proportion. Ere; before; sooner than. To effect as an agent;
to produce; to be the occasion of; to bring about; to bring into existence; to
make; -- usually followed by an infinitive, sometimes by that with a finite
verb.; -- Contemporaneous in origin; as, the equivalent strata of different
countries. Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged
hand to hand. Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an act; the end or
final cause with reference to which anything is, acts, serves, or is done. To
introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the
subject or predicate nominative of a verb., With reference to circumstances or
conditions; as, he is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. To
introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently
preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc., Because; by reason that; for that;
indicating, in Old English, the reason of anything. A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. The faculty or capacity of the human
mind by which it is distinguished from the intelligence of the inferior
animals; the higher as distinguished from the lower cognitive faculties,
sense, imagination, and memory, and in contrast to the feelings and desires.
Reason comprises conception, judgment, reasoning, and the intuitional faculty.
Specifically, it is the intuitional faculty, or the faculty of first truths,
as distinguished from the understanding, which is called the discursive or
ratiocinative faculty. As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a
demonstrative pronoun., By or for the cause that; on this account that; for
the reason that.. See Thee. Constituting or being one of three equal parts
into which anything is divided; as, the third part of a day. A character or
part, as in a play; a specific kind or manifestation of individual character,
whether in real life, or in literary or dramatic representation; an assumed
character. Denoting one person or thing; as, the singular number; -- opposed
to dual and plural. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a
number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had
some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform.
Depending on itself; independent. A word; a vocable. To exist actually, or in
the world of fact; to have existence., With reference to a limit of time; as,
in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Suggestive; representing
the whole by a part, as a fleet by a ship, a forest by a tree, etc. Manner;
style; mode; logical form; musical style; manner of action or being. See Mode
which is the preferable form)., To nominate to an ecclesiastical benefice; to
offer to the bishop or ordinary as a candidate for institution. Stretched
tightly; strained to stiffness; rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber.; as, Man; a
male; any male person; -- in this sense used substantively. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.; The man or male being (or object personified
to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun
of the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already
indicated. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a A human
being; -- opposed to beast..  To perceive by mental vision; to form an idea or
conception of; to note with the mind; to observe; to discern; to distinguish;
to understand; to comprehend; to ascertain. To take place; to happen; as, the
meeting was on Thursday.., See Thee. A word used instead of a noun or name, to
avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or
you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or
thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. By that; by how much; by so much;
on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in
sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The second part in a concerted piece;
-- often popularly applied to the alto. A character or part, as in a play; a
specific kind or manifestation of individual character, whether in real life,
or in literary or dramatic representation; an assumed character., To inclose;
to take in; to harvest. See Thee. Giving a name; naming; designating; -- said
of that case or form of a noun which stands as the subject of a finite verb.,
Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object, and is generally
indicated in English by to or for with the objective., and Unbiased;
unprejudiced; fair; uninfluenced by personal feelings or personal interests;
considering only the facts of a situation unrelated to the observer; -- of
judgments, opinions, evaluations, conclusions, reasoning processes. A box and
its contents; the quantity contained in a box; as, a case of goods; a case of
instruments., indicating A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. Among Trinitarians, one of the three subdivisions of the
Godhead (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an hypostasis. Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. persons
addressed.  In poker and similar games at cards, to meet (a bet), or to equal
the bet of (a player), by staking the same sum. See Thee. To set down in
musical characters. Denoting relation to something that exceeds in rank or
degree, in number, size, weight, age, or the like; in a relation of the less
to the greater, of inferiority, or of falling short. The plural of the pronoun
of the second person in the nominative case.. An adjunct or accessory. Yellow
or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The state
of being liable; as, the liability of an insurer; liability to accidents;
liability to the law.; The quality or state of being possible; the power of
happening, being, or existing. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. That which is or appears probable; anything that
has the appearance of reality or truth.. Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. A position which is occupied and held; a dwelling; a mansion; a
village, town, or city; a fortified town or post; a stronghold; a region or
country.; Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged
hand to hand. A privilege which one party buys of another to ldquoputrdquo
(deliver) to him a certain amount of stock, grain, etc., at a certain price
and date.. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a
husband to her mind. To effect as an agent; to produce; to be the occasion of;
to bring about; to bring into existence; to make; -- usually followed by an
infinitive, sometimes by that with a finite verb. Addition; union;
accumulation. To come; to get. A single unit; as, one is the base of all
numbers.; Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin;
he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of
the state. To bring together, or nearer together, in masonry, as where the
width of a fireplace is rapidly diminished to the width of the flue, or the
like. Indicating insertion; as, to infuse more spirit or animation into a
composition. a To take alone, or one by one. Possessing, or being in a state
of, heath and soundness; healthy; sound; well.; Accord; adaptation; as, an
occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. United; joint; as,
unite consent.; Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a
husband to her mind. assimilite. Denoting The act or state of possessing, or
holding as one's own. Ere; before; sooner than. The state of being an owner;
the right to own; exclusive right of possession; legal or just claim or title;
proprietorship., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving
by small dots. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. Connection by consanguinity or affinity; kinship; relationship; as,
the relation of parents and children. Denoting that from which anything
proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a
race of kings; he is of noble blood. Exposed; liable; prone; disposed; as, a
country subject to extreme heat; men subject to temptation. In a very general
way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive
verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter
or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
attribute; as, By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. apartment Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a
number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had
some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. An official
commissioned to reside in some foreign country, to care for the commercial
interests of the citizens of the appointing government, and to protect its
seamen.: By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Same as Poor, the fish. Denoting possession or ownership, or the
relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power
of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. To supply with a king; to make a king
of; to raise to royalty.; a To tame, as a hawk. Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. That
quality of mind which enables one to encounter danger and difficulties with
firmness, or without fear, or fainting of heart; valor; boldness; resolution.;
See Thee. To punish by requiring to be within the gates at an earlier hour
than usual. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which
it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup
of water. Any place of supreme happiness or great comfort; perfect felicity;
bliss; a sublime or exalted condition; as, a heaven of delight.. The pope or
his court at Rome; as, to appeal to the see of Rome. The objective case of
thou. See Thou.. things at See Thee. To take a form, definite shape, or
arrangement; as, the infantry should form in column. Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. By that; by
how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. A possessive
pronoun, or a word in the possessive case. An inclosing frame; a casing; as, a
door case; a window case. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning;
relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of many things.
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. A movable; a chattel. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid
the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he,
she, it, we, ye, and they. The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye.. The preposition to primarily indicates
approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and
attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement
toward; -- opposed to from. To employ; to use; to occupy; hence, to demand; to
require; as, it takes so much cloth to make a coat; it takes five hours to get
to Boston from New York by car. To give or afford pleasure to; to please; to
gratify.; Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as,
they met us to the number of three hundred. To try to reach or come to; to go
to; to resort to. To go in pursuit; to follow. Amusement; sport; diversion;
self-indulgence; frivolous or dissipating enjoyment; hence, sensual
gratification; -- opposed to labor, service, duty, self-denial, etc.; as,
Addition; union; accumulation. A glass of spirits. pleasuring., A One of three
relations or conditions (that of speaking, that of being spoken to, and that
of being spoken of) pertaining to a noun or a pronoun, and thence also to the
verb of which it may be the subject. at The objective case of who.  See Who.
To laugh at mockingly or disparagingly; to awaken ridicule toward or
respecting., To make merriment by words or actions; to joke; to make light of
anything., Ere; before; sooner than. Disobedience of the rules, orders, or
process of a court of justice, or of rules or orders of a legislative body;
disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent language or behavior in presence of a
court, tending to disturb its proceedings, or impair the respect due to its
authority. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. marked with a
destination; -- of mail or parcels; as, I throw away all mail directed to
`resident'.  Opposite of unaddressed.; as, A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. The common English flounder. Denoting
reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's
achievements; they talked of many things. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. To be a gay companion.. 1st amp 3d pers.
sing. pres. of Wit, to know.  See the Note under Wit, v. Shorn; shaven.; To be
assured; to feel confident. Shorn; shaven.; knows Wot not; know not; knows
not.. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Single; unmarried. and See Thee. Alternate; second; -- used esp. in
connection with every; as, every other day, that is, each alternate day, every
second day.; A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. One and one; twice one.; See Thee. To impair., On or at the outside
of; out of; not within; as, without doors. An objection; cavil; dissent;
disapprobation; offense; cause of offense; -- usually followed by to or
against. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is
introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or...  As a Same as
Hypostasis, 2. One who takes, or that which is said on, the affrimative side;
that which is said in favor of some one or something; -- the antithesis of
against, and commonly used in connection with it. any A word used as the
designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in
thought; a substantive. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning;
relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of many things.
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. To render incapable of sexual reproduction; to remove or alter the
sexual organs so as to make infertile; to alter; to fix; to desex; -- in male
animals, to castrate; in female animals, to spay. Sex, male or female.; as,
Her; hers. See Her. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. By that;
by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. a book or list,
actual or hypothetical, containing records of the best performances in some
endeavor; a recordbook; -- used in the phrase one for the book or one for the
books., To employ; to use; to occupy; hence, to demand; to require; as, it
takes so much cloth to make a coat; it takes five hours to get to Boston from
New York by car. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it
snows; it rains. To proceed toward an object or location intended as a target;
-- of missiles which can change course in flight under internal or external
control; usually used with in on; as, the missile homed in on the radar site..
corresponds A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. A word employed to connect a noun or a pronoun, in an adjectival or
adverbial sense, with some other word; a particle used with a noun or pronoun
(in English always in the objective case) to make a phrase limiting some other
word; -- so called because usually placed before the word with which it is
phrased; as, a bridge of iron; he comes from town; it is good for food; he
escaped by running. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of
last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). In a primary manner; in the first place; in the first place; in
the first intention; originally. indicates approach and arrival, Direction of
movement; course; tendency; as, the motion of the planets is from west to
east. See Mad, n. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it
happened in the last century; in all my life. See Thee. The line or course
upon which anything is moving or aimed to move, or in which anything is lying
or pointing; aim; line or point of tendency; direct line or course; as, the
ship sailed in a southeasterly direction. Denoting that from which anything
proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a
race of kings; he is of noble blood. a To put or set in a particular rank,
office, or position; to surround with particular circumstances or relations in
life; to appoint to certain station or condition of life; as, in whatever
sphere one is placed. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. Whatever exists, or is conceived to exist, as a
separate entity, whether animate or inanimate; any separable or
distinguishable object of thought. and attaining As an indefinite nominative
for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains., access; and also, To make
proposal; to offer plans. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Direction or course toward any place, object, effect, or
result; drift; causal or efficient influence to bring about an effect or
result. Unless; except; -- introducing a clause. arrival; Transference, by any
means, from one situation to another; a change of situation; progress toward a
goal; advancement; as, after months of fruitless discussion there was finally
some movement toward an agreement. In the direction of; to.; -- characterized
by active opposition; as, two bitterly opposing schools of thought. Hence, it
indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an
aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement,
or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. Out
of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by
reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out,
commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony.. Every one of the two or more
individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately from the
rest. It is used either with or without a following noun; as, each of you or
each one of you. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from;
as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. The sum
of one and one; the number next greater than one, and next less than three;
two units or objects.; See Thee. Being a single unit, or entire being or
thing, and no more; not multifold; single; individual. and By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Left, as opposed to
right.; The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of
either.; -- In time past, either in time immediately preceding or at any
indefinite distance; of old; heretofore., also, Every; -- sometimes used
interchangeably with every. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by
which, anything is, or is done; by. any Quantity, regarded as made up of an
aggregate of separate things...  See Thee. A word used instead of a noun or
name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I,
thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. During; in the course of. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Aid; assistance;
help. A character or part, as in a play; a specific kind or manifestation of
individual character, whether in real life, or in literary or dramatic
representation; an assumed character., With reference to space or place; as,
he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the air. See Thee. Giving
a name; naming; designating; -- said of that case or form of a noun which
stands as the subject of a finite verb., Given by a magistrate, as
distinguished from being cast upon a party by the law., and Of or pertaining
to an object. To cover or protect with, or as with, a case; to inclose.,
indicating See Thee. Among Trinitarians, one of the three subdivisions of the
Godhead (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an hypostasis. Ere; before;
sooner than. persons addressed.  The pope or his court at Rome; as, to appeal
to the see of Rome. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. Stigma; brand; reproach. Denoting relation to some thing or
person that is superior, weighs upon, oppresses, bows down, governs, directs,
influences powerfully, or the like, in a relation of subjection,
subordination, obligation, liability, or the like; as, to travel under a heavy
load; to live under extreme oppression; to have fortitude under the evils of
life; to have patience under pain, or under misfortunes; to behave like a
Christian under reproaches and injuries; under the pains and penalties of the
law; the condition under which one enters upon an office; under the necessity
of obeying the laws; under vows of chastity. an old method of printing the
article the (AS.  thorne), the ldquoyrdquo being used in place of the
Anglo-Saxon thorn (thorn). It is sometimes incorrectly pronounced yemacr.  See
The, and Thorn, n., 4.. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. The act of making merry; conviviality; merriment; jollity.
Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity
mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some
of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. Modesty, courtesy, or
concession, or a desire to soften a question or remark. A specified time or
period; time, considered with reference to the existence or prominence of a
person or thing; age; time.. A A padded part of a harness which is worn on a
horse's back, being fastened in place with a girth. It serves various
purposes, as to keep the breeching in place, carry guides for the reins, etc.
To take or carry on the back; as, the keeper, horsing a deer.. One of two; the
one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger
number, for any one. precedes One and one; twice one., Ere; before; sooner
than. That which is in addition; something other and further; an additional or
greater amount., To make coordinate; to put in the same order or rank; as, to
coordinate ideas in classification. words Ere; before; sooner than. phrases,
and The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Serving to introduce
something else; leading to the main subject or business; preliminary;
prefatory; as, introductory proceedings; an introductory discourse.
Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one
that you will offend him. an alternative. As an indefinite nominative for a
impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. The antecedent of a pronoun. Accord; adaptation; as, an
occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. Ere; before; sooner
than.. To inclose; to take in; to harvest. A retinue of servants; a household.
phrases, and One who is in office; -- the opposite of out. a communications
channel; as, my cell phone had a bad connection. To denote association in
thought, as for comparison or contrast. A retinue of servants; a household.
Different from that which, or the one who, has been specified; not the same;
not identical; additional; second of two. words, Effect; end; consequence; as,
the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent
factions exist to the prejudice of the state. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. a
Full of promise; abounding in ability, resources, etc.; as, a pregnant youth.
Sense; power of thinking., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. used In the
form of an ellipse.. See Thee. A chapter, or section, of a book. A large town.
Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. England. A An elementary particle. In an elliptical sentence to
introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise,
indignation, or the like. marks an alternative; as, The pronoun of the second
person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person
or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Ability, competency, or
possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. Hence, to know fully; to
comprehend. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of
blossoming; also, the hawthorn. To set down, as legible characters; to form
the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any material by a suitable
instrument; as, to write the characters called letters; to write figures., --
In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish,
or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. The third person singular of
the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he
is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. A maiden. To perform, as an action; to execute; to transact
to carry out in action; as, to do a good or a bad act; do our duty; to do what
I can. To cause to become one; to gather into a single whole; to unite; to
assimilite. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or
appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent
of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. See Thee. things at The form
of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you. What the will dictates or
prefers as gratifying or satisfying; hence, will; choice; wish; purpose., On
the contrary; on the other hand; only; yet; still; however; nevertheless;
more; further; -- as connective of sentences or clauses of a sentence, in a
sense more or less exceptive or adversative; as, the House of Representatives
passed the bill, but the Senate dissented; our wants are many, but quite of
another kind. A word used to express negation, prohibition, denial, or
refusal. As well; not only; equally..  As an indefinite nominative for a
impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains. corresponds In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases,
and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or..  The pronoun
of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case,
indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. An
auxiliary verb qualifying the meaning of another verb, To be carried on the
back of an animal, as a horse. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly
used of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. Character;
condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled. The capital city of
England. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write,
-- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade.
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. A town in Berkshire, England..  The neuter pronoun of the third person,
corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the
same plural (they, their or theirs, them). Frequently; many times; not seldom.
connects a In Engler's system of plant classification, a group of families
showing certain structural or morphological relationships. It corresponds to
the cohort of some writers, and to the order of many modern systematists.
Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the
source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no
body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. words Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. propositions, presenting
a A sufficient number to choose among. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole;
belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this
little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the
company. Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of
any number.; as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually
followed by a relative pronoun. The merrymaking of May Day. To form or arrange
by previous thought; to con over, as in committing to memory; as, to study a
speech. Any edict, decree, order, ordinance, statute, resolution, judicial,
decision, usage, etc., or recognized, and enforced, by the controlling
authority., Ere; before; sooner than. To give medicine to; to affect as a
medicine does; to remedy; to cure., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. The science of divine things; the science
which treats of God, his laws and moral government, and the way of salvation;
theology., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. The chemical symbol for helium. The early part or springtime of life.
To go or come in; -- often with in used pleonastically; also, to begin; to
take the first steps. Expressing entrance, or a passing from the outside of a
thing to its interior parts; -- following verbs expressing motion; as, come
into the house; go into the church; one stream falls or runs into another;
water enters into the fine vessels of plants. The trade winds.. With privilege
or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by
descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. Consisting of a
great number; numerous; not few. phrases, and With reference to movement or
tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to
into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put
our trust in God. the transfer of a passenger from one vehicle to another to
continue a journey; as, the connection was made in Copenhagen; -- most
commonly of scheduled transportation on common carriers. To denote a close or
direct relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. The
populace; the common people; the majority of people, or of a community.
Either; -- used with other or or for its correlative (as either . . . or are
now used). words, Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a
time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a
limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is
rising to wealth and honor. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. a Heavy with
important contents, significance, or issue; full of consequence or results;
weighty; as, pregnant replies. That which is meant or intended; intent;
purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was apparent., A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The third person singular
of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is;
he is a man.  See Be. used In the form of an ellipse.. A A township; the whole
territory within certain limits, less than those of a country. With reference
to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in
the air. Berkshire, England..  As a Same as Hypostasis, 2. Since; because;
introducing a reason of something before advanced, a cause, motive,
explanation, justification, or the like, of an action related or a statement
made. It is logically nearly equivalent to since, or because, but connects
less closely, and is sometimes used as a very general introduction to
something suggested by what has gone before. any A word used as the
designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in
thought; a substantive. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or
time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed
time. See Thee. To render incapable of sexual reproduction; to remove or alter
the sexual organs so as to make infertile; to alter; to fix; to desex; -- in
male animals, to castrate; in female animals, to spay. A classification of
nouns, primarily according to sex; and secondarily according to some fancied
or imputed quality associated with sex.; as, Hair. The third person singular
of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is;
he is a man.  See Be. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; --
used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. A collection of sheets of paper, or similar
material, blank, written, or printed, bound together; commonly, many folded
and bound sheets containing continuous printing or writing., To assume; to
adopt; to acquire, as shape; to permit to one's self; to indulge or engage in;
to yield to; to have or feel; to enjoy or experience, as rest, revenge,
delight, shame; to form and adopt, as a resolution; -- used in general senses,
limited by a following complement, in many idiomatic phrases; as, to take a
resolution; I take the liberty to say. As an indefinite nominative for a
impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains. To return home.. At frequent or short
intervals; many times; often; repeatedly; commonly.; Consisting of a great
number; numerous; not few. times; Shorn; shaven. Rarely; not often; not
frequently.. connects a A A collection of many individuals; a numerous
assemblage; a multitude; many. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing
by which, anything is, or is done; by. things A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. events Not transitory; not
liable to fade or vanish; lasting; as, a standing color. Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The act of one who, or
that which, succeeds; also, that which succeeds, or follows after;
consequence. With reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or
environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground;
to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. Regular
arrangement; any methodical or established succession or harmonious relation;
method; system, and p. p. of connect. Near to, while passing; hence, from one
to the other side of; past; as, to go by a church. a Having probability;
affording probability; probable; likely. Connection by consanguinity or
affinity; kinship; relationship; as, the relation of parents and children.;
Any succession of chords (or harmonic phrase) rising or falling by the regular
diatonic degrees in the same scale; a succession of similar harmonic steps.;
To give an order to; to command; as, to order troops to advance.; Method of
procedure; manner or way of conducting; conduct; behavior.; a An order or
series of descendants; lineage; race; descent. Denoting reference to a thing;
about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they
talked of many things. things; as, a Not deviating or varying from
uninformity; not interrupted; not joined or articulated. A parcel of rough
diamonds of assorted qualities. In a general sense, from, or out from;
proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety
of applications; as: Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making
wretched; wretched; unhappy. events. Denoting A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. To form from matter; to materialize.
Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men
of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. A compound
relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that
which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will.
anything The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Free from
agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self-possessed., Ere; before; sooner
than. To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so
or such, sometimes by that. A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an
antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified
or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally
involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded). It is used
in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons. As an indefinite
object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously
as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). contains; as, a To be in, or sit
upon, a throne; to be placed as if upon a throne. Denoting the material of
which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a
sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. An old English name of some
yellow flower, -- the marigold (Calendula), according to Dr. Prior, but in
Chaucer perhaps the turnsole.; a An offensive weapon, having a long and
usually sharp-pointed blade with a cutting edge or edges. It is the general
term, including the small sword, rapier, saber, scimiter, and many other
varieties. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin,
source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble
blood. To cover, as an electrotype plate, with a thin layer of iron by
electrolysis. The iron thus deposited is very hard, like steel.; a An
appendage to the shield, placed above it, and supporting the crest (see
Illust. of Crest). It generally represents a twist of two cords of silk, one
tinctured like the principal metal, the other like the principal color in the
arms. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source,
descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood.
Hence, anything which dims or darkens, and obscures or intercepts vision.; a
To make concave or in the form of a cup; as, to cup the end of a screw.
Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. An addition to the shares representing the capital of a stock company
so that the aggregate par value of the shares is increased while their value
for investment is diminished, or ldquodiluted.rdquo. words A Any very small
portion or part; the smallest portion; as, he has not a particle of patriotism
or virtue. As an adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the
pronoun, but is followed by a noun. marks an alternative; as, The pronoun of
the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating
the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The fifth month of
the year, containing thirty-one days. To study by reading; as, he read for the
bar. Ere; before; sooner than. A maiden. To form characters, letters, or
figures, as representative of sounds or ideas; to express words and sentences
by written signs., -- As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or
which, serving to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken of,
or alluded to, before, and may be either singular or plural. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. An auxiliary verb qualifying the meaning of
another verb, To perform work upon, about, for, or at, by way of caring for,
looking after, preparing, cleaning, keeping in order, or the like. To cause to
become one; to gather into a single whole; to unite; to assimilite. In a
general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. things at The form of the
possessive case of the personal pronoun you. That which pleases; a favor; a
gratification., A person at whom ridicule, jest, or contempt is directed; as,
the butt of the company. Shorn; shaven. As well; not only; equally..  As an
indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains.
corresponds Addition; union; accumulation. Either precedes two, or more,
cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is
correlative to or..  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and
the like. To be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse. Each of two; the
one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number. Extent; limit;
degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of
three hundred. The capital city of England. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Comparison; as, three is to
nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. A
town in Berkshire, England..  As a substitute for such general terms as, the
state of affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with
the sick man? Frequently; many times; not seldom. connects a A number of
things or events standing or succeeding in order, and connected by a like
relation; sequence; order; course; a succession of things; as, a continuous
series of calamitous events. Denoting the material of which anything is
composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a
wreath of mist; a cup of water. words Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. propositions, presenting a Worthly of
being chosen or preferred; select; superior; precious; valuable. Denoting
reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's
achievements; they talked of many things. One of two; the one or the other; --
properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one.;
as, The man or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender
is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender,
usually referring to a specified subject already indicated. Desire or wish, as
in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. To make an object of study;
to aim at sedulously; to devote one's thoughts to; as, to study the welfare of
others; to study variety in composition. The Jewish or Mosaic code, and that
part of Scripture where it is written, in distinction from the gospel; hence,
also, the Old Testament., Ere; before; sooner than. Among the North American
Indians, any object supposed to give control over natural or magical forces,
to act as a protective charm, or to cause healing; also, magical power itself;
the potency which a charm, token, or rite is supposed to exert., Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The state of
being divine; the nature or essence of God; deity; godhead., A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Man; a male; any male
person; -- in this sense used substantively. The merrymaking of May Day. To
deposit for copyright the title or description of (a book, picture, map,
etc.); as, ldquoentered according to act of Congress.rdquo Expressing
entrance, or a passing from the outside of a thing to its interior parts; --
following verbs expressing motion; as, come into the house; go into the
church; one stream falls or runs into another; water enters into the fine
vessels of plants. To sell or exchange in commerce; to barter.. propositions,
presenting a Selected To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or
hostility; -- equivalent to against. To be anxious or solicitous; to be
concerned; to have regard or interest; -- sometimes followed by an objective
of measure., and To endue. attention Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine
is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. The act of
Preferring, or the state of being preferred; the setting of one thing before
another; precedence; higher estimation; predilection; choice; also, the power
or opportunity of choosing; as, to give him his preference.; With careful
consideration, or deliberation; circumspectly; warily; not hastily or rashly;
slowly; as, a purpose deliberately formed. One who, or that which is the
object of choice or special favor.. Denoting By that; by how much; by so much;
on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in
sin, the more difficult it is to reform. agent, Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A parson; the parish
priest. Used in specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a cabin twenty feet by
forty. The objective case of who.  See Who., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A portion or part;
something. Against. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and
adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an
individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it?
which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take;
which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1.,
anything The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., Ere; before;
sooner than. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Performed;
executed; finished.; Aside; as, to lay by; to put by.. Each of two; the one
and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number. precedes A symbol
representing two units, as 2, II., or ii., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A greater quantity, amount,
or number; that which exceeds or surpasses in any way what it is compared
with., To make coordinate; to put in the same order or rank; as, to coordinate
ideas in classification. words A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. phrases, and The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. Serving to introduce something else; leading to the main subject
or business; preliminary; prefatory; as, introductory proceedings; an
introductory discourse. Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as,
they engaged hand to hand. an alternative. As a demonstrative, especially at
the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated,
named, or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I
saw it was John. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. One who, or
that which, stands in a reciprocal relation, or is correlated, to some other
person or thing. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last
defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots..; as, Any A single unit; as, one is the base of all numbers.; A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A married
man; a husband; -- correlative to wife. Ere; before; sooner than. The bodily
form of a human being; body; outward appearance; as, of comely person.; --
used In an indefinite manner or degree; without any settled limitation;
vaguely; not with certainty or exactness; as, to use a word indefinitely., and
usually followed Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving
the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral
matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play,
by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. a A relative
pronoun; a word which relates to, or represents, another word or phrase,
called its antecedent; as, the relatives ldquowhordquo, ldquowhichrdquo,
ldquothatrdquo. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition
of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we,
ye, and they.. An auxiliary A word; a vocable. qualifying A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. That which is meant or
intended; intent; purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was
apparent. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything
is, or is done; by. another A word; a vocable., Character; condition of being;
purpose subserved or office filled. To exert physical or intellectual strength
for the attainment of; to use efforts to effect; to strive to achieve or
reach; to try; to attempt. In a diligent manner; not carelessly; not
negligently; with industry or assiduity.; In many phrases, and in connection
with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To
exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have existence. Filled with
religious zeal.. An Of or pertaining to compounds which are derivatives of
hydrocarbons; pertaining to, or denoting, any one of a large series of
carbon-containing compounds which are related to the carbon compounds produced
by biological processes (such as methane, oils, fats, sugars, alcohols,
ethers, proteins, etc.) and include many substances of artificial production
which may or may not occur in animals or plants; -- contrasted with inorganic.
Conduct in general; behavior., as a An authoritative ordinance, regulation or
enactment; especially, one made by a Roman emperor, or one affecting
ecclesiastical doctrine or discipline; as, the constitutions of Justinian.
Ere; before; sooner than. To hire or let by charter, as a ship. See Charter
party, under Charter, n., establishing and defining A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. conditions Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. See Thee. That
which exists; a being; a creature; an entity; as, living existences. In a
general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: a Belonging to the
state, or body politic; public. Ere; before; sooner than. Alternate; second;
-- used esp. in connection with every; as, every other day, that is, each
alternate day, every second day. Formed into an organization.  Opposite of
unorganized. Common possession or enjoyment; participation; as, a community of
goods.., A A subordinate word that is never inflected (a preposition,
conjunction, interjection); or a word that can not be used except in
compositions; as, ward in backward, ly in lovely. As a conjunction, that
retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun. marks an alternative;
as, The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective
case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The
fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. To go over, as characters
or words, and utter aloud, or recite to one's self inaudibly; to take in the
sense of, as of language, by interpreting the characters with which it is
expressed; to peruse; as, to read a discourse; to read the letters of an
alphabet; to read figures; to read the notes of music, or to read music; to
read a book. Ere; before; sooner than. Ability, competency, or possibility; --
now oftener expressed by can. To impress durably; to imprint; to engrave; as,
truth written on the heart., -- As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that
usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or
supposed to be understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to
which it refers; as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are
good apples. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun
of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case,
indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Liberty;
permission; allowance. To deal with for good and all; to finish up; to undo;
to ruin; to do for. A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or i. Denoting that by
which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose
or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of
itself; he did it of necessity. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. things at The form of the possessive case of the
personal pronoun you. That which pleases; a favor; a gratification., A limit;
a bound; a goal; the extreme bound; the end. A word used to express negation,
prohibition, denial, or refusal. As well; not only; equally..  As an
indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used
humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). corresponds Accord;
adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind.
Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any
number..  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and
objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. To support
a rider, as a horse; to move under the saddle; as, a horse rides easy or hard,
slow or fast. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two
things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. In a very general way,
and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs
with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or
passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
The capital city of England. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office
filled. A town in Berkshire, England..  As a substance for any noun of the
neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. Frequent; common; repeated.
connects a Any comprehensive group of animals or plants including several
subordinate related groups. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or
time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed
time. words Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. propositions, presenting a Worthly of being chosen or preferred;
select; superior; precious; valuable. Denoting identity or equivalence; --
used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition;
as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. Either
precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to
an alternative. It is correlative to or.; as, The man or male being (or object
personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated;
a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject
already indicated. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time
of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. To make an object of study; to aim at
sedulously; to devote one's thoughts to; as, to study the welfare of others;
to study variety in composition. Trial by the laws of the land; judicial
remedy; litigation; as, to go law., A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Among the North American Indians, any object
supposed to give control over natural or magical forces, to act as a
protective charm, or to cause healing; also, magical power itself; the potency
which a charm, token, or rite is supposed to exert., A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The science of divine
things; the science which treats of God, his laws and moral government, and
the way of salvation; theology., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. Any one; the man or person; -- used
indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. Desire or wish, as
in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. To initiate; to introduce
favorably. Indicating the passing of a thing from one form, condition, or
state to another; as, compound substances may be resolved into others which
are more simple; ice is convertible into water, and water into vapor; men are
more easily drawn than forced into compliance; we may reduce many distinct
substances into one mass; men are led by evidence into belief of truth, and
are often enticed into the commission of crimes; she burst into tears;
children are sometimes frightened into fits; all persons are liable to be
seduced into error and folly. Business of any kind; matter of mutual
consideration; affair; dealing.. Extent; limit; degree of comprehension;
inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three hundred. To cause;
to make; -- with the infinitive; as, to give one to understand, to know, etc.
Hence, a similar object or agency among other savages. Apposition; connection;
antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand.; Addition; union;
accumulation. affect as a A philter or love potion. The 3d pers. sing. pres.
of Do.; Addition; union; accumulation. That which corrects or counteracts an
evil of any kind; a corrective; a counteractive; reparation; cure; -- followed
by for or against, formerly by to.; Character; condition of being; purpose
subserved or office filled. To subdue or remove by remedial means; to remedy;
to remove; to heal; -- said of a malady.., To plow. [Obs.] See Ear, v. t.;
Under the cognizance or jurisdiction of.; In the western United States, one
who settles on government land before it is legally open to settlement in
order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the
land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or
anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage. A particle
expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express
comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It
is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes,
however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then
considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is
expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer
than that you should want.. See Thee. The collection of attributes which make
up the nature of a god; divinity; godhead; as, the deity of the Supreme Being
is seen in his works.; A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. Highest in authority; holding the highest place in authority,
government, or power. Existence, as opposed to nonexistence; state or sphere
of existence.; Good.., Rather than.; On the fore part; in front, or in the
direction of the front; -- opposed to in the rear.; In the western United
States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to
settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first
settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing
prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair
advantage. A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and
adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other,
otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the
nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the
objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a
preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually
introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want.. One
of the piece with which certain games, as chess or draughts, are played.; a
Adapted for entering another corresponding piece (the female piece) which is
hollow and which it fits; as, a male gauge, for gauging the size or shape of a
hole; a male screw, etc.; any An animal of the male sex. A human being spoken
of indefinitely; one; a man; as, any person present.; -- Not out; within;
inside. In, the preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its object,
leaving it as the representative of an adverbial phrase, the context
indicating what the omitted object is; as, he takes in the situation (i. e.,
he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in
at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in
(i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). As an
adjective, this has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is
followed by a noun; as, this book; this way to town. One of two opposite
directions in which a line, surface, or volume, may be supposed to be
described by the motion of a point, line, or surface. used In a substantive
manner; in substance; essentially.. A certain amount of freedom; permission to
go freely within certain limits; also, the place or limits within which such
freedom is exercised; as, the liberties of a prison.; The act of permitting or
allowing; formal consent; authorization; leave; license or liberty granted.;
allowance. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a
state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit
to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising
to wealth and honor. Money lodged with a party as earnest or security for the
performance of a duty assumed by the person depositing. Indicating the
antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or inducement
accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of anything; that on
account of which a thing is or is done. To secure a copyright on. See Thee. An
inscription put over or upon anything as a name by which it is known. Ere;
before; sooner than. A class to which a certain representation is applicable;
kind; sort. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as,
within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. (a To enter
the name of (any one) in a book for the purpose of securing a passage,
conveyance, or seat; to reserve{2}; also, to make an arrangement for a
reservation; as, to be booked for Southampton; to book a seat in a theater; to
book a reservation at a restaurant., A representation of anything (as a
person, a landscape, a building) upon canvas, paper, or other surface,
produced by means of painting, drawing, engraving, photography, etc.; a
representation in colors. By extension, a figure; a model., To represent by a
map; -- often with out; as, to survey and map, or map out, a county. Hence,
figuratively: To represent or indicate systematically and clearly; to sketch;
to plan; as, to map, or map out, a journey; to map out business., etc.); as,
ldquoentered according Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward
a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as
a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is
rising to wealth and honor. act Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with
a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. The collective
body of senators and representatives of the people of a nation, esp. of a
republic, constituting the chief legislative body of the nation..rdquo
Denoting Something that is included.; as, The act of putting; an action; a
movement; a thrust; a push; as, the put of a ball. The plural of this. See
This. ideas Indicating the passing of a thing from one form, condition, or
state to another; as, compound substances may be resolved into others which
are more simple; ice is convertible into water, and water into vapor; men are
more easily drawn than forced into compliance; we may reduce many distinct
substances into one mass; men are led by evidence into belief of truth, and
are often enticed into the commission of crimes; she burst into tears;
children are sometimes frightened into fits; all persons are liable to be
seduced into error and folly. Different from that which, or the one who, has
been specified; not the same; not identical; additional; second of two. words.
In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant
meaning, or is used elliptically. The act or practice of trafficking by
exchange of commodities; an exchange of goods., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. In a very general way, and
with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with
their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive
verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon
that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as,
these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To acquire the
ownership of (property) by giving an accepted price or consideration therefor,
or by agreeing to do so; to acquire by the payment of a price or value; to
purchase; -- opposed to sell. and To make a matter of bargain and sale of; to
accept a price or reward for, as for a breach of duty, trust, or the like; to
betray.; Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a
state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit
to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising
to wealth and honor. To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer to.
Involved; esp., involved in a hostile encounter; as, the engaged ships
continued the fight. Not out; within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes an
adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the representative of an
adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is; as, he
takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans
were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or
into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in
(i. e., into the house). See Thee. The place where the merchants, brokers, and
bankers of a city meet at certain hours, to transact business; also, the
institution which sets regulations and maintains the physical facilities of
such a place; as, the New York Stock Exchange; a commodity exchange. In this
sense the word was at one time often contracted to 'change, To put forth
effort to obtain anything; to strive; to exert one's self., Ere; before;
sooner than. Public disposal to the highest bidder, or exposure of goods in
market; auction. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which,
anything is, or is done; by. See Good, n., 3., See 4th Ware., To trade; to
carry on commerce., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or
may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. anything Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming? What
else shall I give? Do you expect anything else?; Addition; union;
accumulation. Commodities of the market.; In many phrases, and in connection
with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. The
thing stipulated or purchased; also, anything bought cheap.; Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. To bear the
charges or burden of holding or having, as stocks, merchandise, etc., from one
time to another; as, a merchant is carrying a large stock; a farm carries a
mortgage; a broker carries stock for a customer; to carry a life insurance. At
or in the time of; during; as, on Sunday we abstain from labor. See At
(synonym). A round game at cards, in which the cards are subject to exchange,
barter, or trade. as a Affair; concern; matter; -- used in an indefinite
sense, and modified by the connected words... Amusement; To make sport in
contempt or in jest; to speak in a scornful or jeering manner.; Subject of
laughter, derision, or sport.; Manifesting or expressing contempt or disdain;
scornful; haughty; insolent; disdainful. That which causes merriment.; The act
of deriding, or the state of being derided; mockery; scornful or contemptuous
treatment which holds one up to ridicule..; As a relative pronoun, that is
equivalent to who or which, serving to point out, and make definite, a person
or thing spoken of, or alluded to, before, and may be either singular or
plural. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. diverts; As an adjective,
that has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a
noun. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. turns A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. draws By that; by how much;
by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Courage; spirit. Out of
the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by
reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out,
commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. Charge, oversight, or management,
implying responsibility for safety and prosperity. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To make an object of study;
to aim at sedulously; to devote one's thoughts to; as, to study the welfare of
others; to study variety in composition., and The commoner kind of
frankincense, or that obtained from the Norway spruce, the long-leaved pine,
and other conifers. relaxes and amuses; A plant or an animal, or part of a
plant or animal, which has some peculiarity not usually seen in the species;
an abnormal variety or growth. See Sporting plant, under Sporting.; To perform
music upon; as, to play the flute or the organ.; To sport; to amuse one's
self.; as, A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
diversions Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as,
within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. The part of
life that succeeds to childhood; the period of existence preceding maturity or
age; the whole early part of life, from childhood, or, sometimes, from
infancy, to manhood..; The act of indulging or humoring; the quality of being
indulgent; forbearance of restrain or control. During; in the course of. one's
appetites, desires, Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. inclinations; -- By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. Extremely different; inconsistent;
contrary; repugnant; antagonistic. Denoting the material of which anything is
composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a
wreath of mist; a cup of water. Restraint over one's self; self-control;
self-command., and The denial of one's self; forbearing to gratify one's own
desires; self-sacrifice..; Stated; fixed; as, in a given time. Hence, it
indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an
aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement,
or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. Being
of small value or importance; trivial; paltry; as, a trifling debt; a trifling
affair.; Designated or distinguished by, or as by, a mark; hence; noticeable;
conspicuous; as, a marked card; a marked coin; a marked instance. With denotes
or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association,
connection, or the like. Not becoming; unsuitable; unfit; indecorous;
improper. Lack of gravity and earnestness in deportment or character; trifling
gayety; frivolity; sportiveness; vanity.; Weak; helpless; frail.; Having an
interest; concerned in a cause or in consequences; liable to be affected or
prejudiced; as, an interested witness; an interested party. In an especial
manner; chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree. With
reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in difficulties; she stood
in a blaze of light. Being of small value or importance; trivial; paltry; as,
a trifling debt; a trifling affair. matters. A The smaller hosts distributed
in the communion of the laity. To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent
to for that, in that, for the reason that, because. marks an alternative; as,
The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective
case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye.
Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. To study
by reading; as, he read for the bar. A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from
their time of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. Hence, to compose or produce, as
an author., -- To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might,
and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called
from their time of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. To make ready for an
object, purpose, or use, as food by cooking; to cook completely or
sufficiently; as, the meat is done on one side only. A symbol representing a
unit, as 1, or i. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time;
from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time.
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. things at The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you.
To give or afford pleasure to; to please; to gratify., Otherwise than that;
that not; -- commonly, after a negative, with that. A word used to express
negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal. As well; not only; equally..  As a
demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that
which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which
apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John. corresponds In a very general
way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive
verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter
or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but
sometimes of a larger number, for any one..  The pronoun of the second person,
in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or
persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The fifth month of the year,
containing thirty-one days. To support a rider, as a horse; to move under the
saddle; as, a horse rides easy or hard, slow or fast. Either precedes two, or
more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative.
It is correlative to or. In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties
of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. The capital city of England. Yellow
or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one
that you will offend him. A town in Berkshire, England..  As a substitute for
such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and the
like; as, how is it with the sick man? Frequently; many times; not seldom.
connects a A mode of arranging the separate parts of a circuit by connecting
them successively end to end to form a single path for the current; -- opposed
to parallel. The parts so arranged are said to be in series. In a general
sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: words A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. propositions, presenting a
Act of choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from two or more
things that which is preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring
one thing to another; election. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with
a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. Either precedes
two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an
alternative. It is correlative to or.; as, The chemical symbol for helium. A
maiden. Mental occupation; absorbed or thoughtful attention; meditation;
contemplation. In mathematics: The rule according to which anything, as the
change of value of a variable, or the value of the terms of a series,
proceeds; mode or order of sequence., A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Any substance administered in the treatment of
disease; a remedial agent; a medication; a drug; a pharmaceutical; a
medicament; a remedy; physic., Ere; before; sooner than. The science of divine
things; the science which treats of God, his laws and moral government, and
the way of salvation; theology., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely,
and usually followed by a relative pronoun. The early part or springtime of
life. To initiate; to introduce favorably. Expressing penetration beyond the
outside or surface, or access to the inside, or contents; as, to look into a
letter or book; to look into an apartment. To buy and sell or exchange
property in a single instance.. dissipating By that; by how much; by so much;
on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in
sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Essential quality; property;
attribute. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to
attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of
courage; the gate of heaven. enjoying anything; That which pleases; a favor; a
gratification. Ere; before; sooner than. That which satisfies or gratifies;
atonement., as With reference to character, reach, scope, or influence
considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's favor. See Thee.
To invest with property. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. The state or condition of being occupied; as, occupancy by
more than 250 people is dangerous and unlawful. Denoting the agent, or person
by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. anything; The having,
holding, or detention of property in one's power or command; actual seizin or
occupancy; ownership, whether rightful or wrongful. and A stab of iron welded
to the side of a forging, as a shaft, near the end, and afterward drawn down,
by hammering, so as to lengthen the forging.; as, By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. That which gives pleasure or keen
satisfaction. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that
which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a
cup of water. an The great classes or orders of a community or state (as the
clergy, the nobility, and the commonalty of England) or their representatives
who administer the government; as, the estates of the realm (England), which
are (1) the lords spiritual, (2) the lords temporal, (3) the commons..; Out of
the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by
reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out,
commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. As a demonstrative pronoun, this
denotes something that is present or near in place or time, or something just
mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned. to recognize or identify (a
person).; away., From this reason; therefore; -- as an inference or
deduction., Shorn; shaven. Of or pertaining to the moral feelings or states of
the soul, as distinguished from the external actions; reaching and affecting
the spirits. Ere; before; sooner than. A learned person or one of high
intelligence;; Flesh-devouring; cruel; ravenous; bloody.; Of or pertaining to
the flesh; corporeal.; pertaining Apposition; connection; antithesis;
opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand., A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. consisting A reeumlntrant
angle; a nook or corner., A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. The act of gratifying, or pleasing, either the mind, the taste,
or the appetite; as, the gratification of the palate, of the appetites, of the
senses, of the desires, of the heart. Denoting that from which anything
proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a
race of kings; he is of noble blood. See Thee. senses, Ere; before; sooner
than. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. An indulgent act; favor granted; gratification. Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. appetites;
wordly. A Compensation or remuneration for services; a sum of money paid or
taken for doing, or forbearing to do, some act.; a To give recompense; to make
amends or requital.; a Something given freely or without recompense; a free
gift; a present.. ; -- stated precisely; -- of the meaning of words or
concepts. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the
meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a
thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street.
It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. active The situation
of a heavenly body with respect to another when in the part of the heavens
directly opposite to it; especially, the position of a planet or satellite
when its longitude differs from that of the sun 180deg; -- signified by the
symbol &unr_;; as, &unr_; &jupiter_; &sun_;, opposition of Jupiter to the
sun.; as, One and one; twice one. In a bitter manner. acting in opposition to;
as, the opposing sector of the same muscle group. schools Denoting relation to
place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people
of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. The act of thinking; the exercise of
the mind in any of its higher forms; reflection; cogitation.. Apposition; The
persons or things that are connected; as, a business connection; the Methodist
connection.; antithesis; The situation of a heavenly body with respect to
another when in the part of the heavens directly opposite to it; especially,
the position of a planet or satellite when its longitude differs from that of
the sun 180deg; -- signified by the symbol &unr_;; as, &unr_; &jupiter_;
&sun_;, opposition of Jupiter to the sun.; as, The plural of he, she, or it.
They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes
refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. Involved; esp., involved in
a hostile encounter; as, the engaged ships continued the fight. Power of
performance; means of execution; ability; skill; dexterity. As sign of the
infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). A
gambling game played by American Indians, consisting of guessing the
whereabouts of bits of ivory or the like, which are passed rapidly from hand
to hand.. Of or pertaining to physic, or the art of medicine; medicinal;
curative; healing; also, cathartic; purgative. To weary; to overlabor. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Having a body
or material form; physical; corporeal; consisting of matter. The act of
exerting, or putting into motion or action; the active exercise of any power
or faculty; an effort, esp. a laborious or perceptible effort; as, an exertion
of strength or power; an exertion of the limbs or of the mind; it is an
exertion for him to move, to-day., In an especial manner; chiefly;
particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree. At what time; at, during, or
after the time that; at or just after, the moment that; -- used relatively.
fatiguing, Wearisome; tedious; disagreeable or troublesome by reason of long
continuance or repetition; as, irksome hours; irksome tasks., Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Not avoidable;
incapable of being shunned or prevented; inevitable; necessary; as,
unavoidable troubles., With reference to physical surrounding, personal
states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness;
to live in fear. A marking off by visible signs; separation into parts;
division. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to;
leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure,
setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or
procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is
construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action,
state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently,
the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. Tending to, engaged in, or provocative
of, sport; gay; frolicsome; playful; merry. To put in practice; to carry out
in action; to perform the duties of; to use; to employ; to practice; as, to
exercise authority; to exercise an office.; To harden; to make hard., Well
furnished with muscles; having well-developed muscles; brawny; hence, strong;
powerful; vigorous; as, a muscular body or arm. To stimulate. marked with a
destination; -- of mail or parcels; as, I throw away all mail directed to
`resident'.  Opposite of unaddressed. The preposition to primarily indicates
approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and
attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement
toward; -- opposed to from. Certain; those of one part or portion; -- in
distinction from other or others; as, some men believe one thing, and others
another. Full of use, advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to
produce, good; serviceable for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any
purpose; beneficial; profitable; advantageous; as, vessels and instruments
useful in a family; books useful for improvement; useful knowledge; useful
arts. To come to the ultimate point; to be finished; to come to a close; to
cease; to terminate; as, a voyage ends; life ends; winter ends., as
agriculture, manufactures, and Having the same, or nearly the same,
appearance, qualities, or characteristics; resembling; similar to; similar;
alike; -- often with in and the particulars of the resemblance; as, they are
like each other in features, complexion, and many traits of character.; An
element which forms no part of the original root; -- opposed to radical. To
labor; to work; -- often with out.; The act of exerting, or putting into
motion or action; the active exercise of any power or faculty; an effort, esp.
a laborious or perceptible effort; as, an exertion of strength or power; an
exertion of the limbs or of the mind; it is an exertion for him to move,
to-day.; To produce or form by labor; to bring forth by exertion or toil; to
accomplish; to originate; to effect; as, to work wood or iron into a form
desired, or into a utensil; to work cotton or wool into cloth.., Full of use,
advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to produce, good; serviceable
for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any purpose; beneficial;
profitable; advantageous; as, vessels and instruments useful in a family;
books useful for improvement; useful knowledge; useful arts. A special duty,
trust, charge, or position, conferred by authority and for a public purpose; a
position of trust or authority; as, an executive or judical office; a
municipal office.; advantage given formally or officially.; As adverb: To such
a degree; so; as, he was that frightened he could say nothing. A relative
pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes
with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a
following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to
something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was
formerly used of persons. promotes A fee paid for the use of money; a fee paid
for a loan; -- usually reckoned as a percentage; as, interest at five per cent
per annum on ten thousand dollars. A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Fortuitous elegance; unstudied grace; -- used
especially of language.; A theatrical performance, a concert, or the like, the
proceeds of which do not go to the lessee of the theater or to the company,
but to some individual actor, or to some charitable use.; avail., A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. The quality of
being efficient or producing an effect or effects; efficient power; effectual
agency. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source,
descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. an
To assault with an engine., In an especial manner; chiefly; particularly;
peculiarly; in an uncommon degree. a Any exhalation. a. amp n. from pump.
(Pronounced, in this sense, &unr_;&unr_;&unr_;&unr_;&unr_;.) To rack; to
torture., as Regulated or determined by a standard; hence, equal; uniform;
graduated; limited; moderated; as, he walked with measured steps; he expressed
himself in no measured terms. Used in specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a
cabin twenty feet by forty. To ferment, as a liquid. p. p. from Do, and
formerly the infinitive. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in
composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental,
or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,
by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition
than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
a Certainty. That which can be increased, diminished, or measured; especially
(Math.), anything to which mathematical processes are applicable. Denoting
reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's
achievements; they talked of many things. To feed with fuel.; usually, By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The
state or quality of being numerable or countable. Denoting that by which a
person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or
action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself;
he did it of necessity. pounds Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing
by which, anything is, or is done; by. Any liquid secretion, humor, or the
like, resembling water; esp., the urine. turned upward; as, she left the room
with her face lifted. To cause to become one; to gather into a single whole;
to unite; to assimilite. To walk; -- opposed to ride or fly. Against. A single
unit; as, one is the base of all numbers. A quantity that fills a bushel
measure; as, a heap containing ten bushels of apples. Denoting nearness or
distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time. To mark or delineate with charcoal. (94
lbs. Aged; antiquated; hence, wanting in the mental vigor or other qualities
belonging to youth; -- used disparagingly as a term of reproach. That which is
established as a rule or model by authority, custom, or general consent;
criterion; test.), A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or
may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the
meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a
thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street.
It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. 1 cwt. (112 lbs.,
England, Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small
dots. 100 lbs., Combined; joined; made one. States)., See Thee. The act of
gainsaying, refusing, or disowning; negation; -- the contrary of affirmation.
Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is
done; by. one's The individual as the object of his own reflective
consciousness; the man viewed by his own cognition as the subject of all his
mental phenomena, the agent in his own activities, the subject of his own
feelings, and the possessor of capacities and character; a person as a
distinct individual; a being regarded as having personality.; Disposed or
accustomed to forbear; patient; long-suffering. Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. To requite; to recompense. one's Belonging to; belonging exclusively
or especially to; peculiar; -- most frequently following a possessive pronoun,
as my, our, thy, your, his, her, its, their, in order to emphasize or
intensify the idea of property, peculiar interest, or exclusive ownership; as,
my own father; my own composition; my own idea; at my own price. desires; The
act of sacrificing one's self, or one's interest, for others; self-devotion..,
etc. In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a
pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To be the sign of; to betoken; to
signify; to mean. a Adhering strictly to a standard or original; exact;
strict; as, a close translation. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. In the line of descent; not collateral; as, a
descendant in the direct line. Reference; respect; regard. During; in the
course of. Repugnance; contrariety of sentiment, interest, or purpose;
antipathy. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. An act of an open enemy; a hostile deed; especially in the plural,
acts of warfare; attacks of an enemy.  See hostilities; -- Equal in worth or
value, force, power, effect, import, and the like; alike in significance and
value; of the same import or meaning. In a very general way, and with
innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their
remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs
with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that
of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these
remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. against. A single
unit; as, one is the base of all numbers. Denoting that by which a person or
thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due
to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. The objective case of who.  See Who. inquires A drinking cup; a
vessel for holding liquids. To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to
have existence. successful or assured of success; as, a self-made man. as In a
very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
See Thee. Unimpaired, unadulterated, or genuine state; entire correspondence
with an original condition; purity., Legal or moral qualification, as of age,
residence, character, etc., necessary for certain purposes, as for holding
office, for marrying, for making contracts, wills, etc.; legal power or right;
competency., and A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. To have an appearance or expression; to look; to seem to be (in a
specified condition)., Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name
or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. another. As To
make a sign or signal; to communicate directions or intelligence by signs.
Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity
mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some
of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. See Thee. An infinitive
form of the verb; a verb in the infinitive mood; the infinitive mood.,
Addition; union; accumulation. See Have. At first; at the origin; at the time
of formation or costruction; as, a book originally written by another hand. A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Occasion or
need to employ; necessity; as, to have no further use for a book. In a general
sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: A load; a heavy burden;
hence, a certain weight or measure, generally estimated at 4,000 lbs., but
varying for different articles and in different countries. In England, a last
of codfish, white herrings, meal, or ashes, is twelve barrels; a last of corn,
ten quarters, or eighty bushels, in some parts of England, twenty-one
quarters; of gunpowder, twenty-four barrels, each containing 100 lbs; of red
herrings, twenty cades, or 20,000; of hides, twelve dozen; of leather, twenty
dickers; of pitch and tar, fourteen barrels; of wool, twelve sacks; of flax or
feathers, 1,700 lbs. defined, Holding the superiority; prevalent; controlling;
as, a governing wind; a governing party in a state. See Thee. Unlimited; not
bounded or restricted; undefined. as a Consisting in, or having to do with,
words only; dealing with words rather than with the ideas intended to be
conveyed; as, a verbal critic; a verbal change. A word used as the designation
or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a
substantive., and forming a connection; as, a connecting corridor. As a
demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that
which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which
apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John. as Not straightforward or
upright; unfair; dishonest; tending to mislead or deceive. Any set of data
that is or can be manipulated or referenced by a computer program as a single
entity; -- the term may be used broadly, to include files, images (such as
icons on the screen), or small data structures. With denotes or expresses some
situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the
like. a In the direction toward which stars appear to move. See Following, 2.
A word which affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part
of speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action. A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. adjective; To
this degree or extent; so far; so; as, thus wise; thus peaceble; thus bold.,
Fitted or arranged for immediate use; causing no delay for lack of being
prepared or furnished. Addition; union; accumulation. The fashion or mode; as,
quite the go., As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc..E is the third
tone of the model diatonic scale. Eflat  (E flat) is a tone which is
intermediate between D and E.., Offering itself at once; at hand; opportune;
convenient; near; easy. Until; till. The act of moving in any manner;
traveling; as, the going is bad.; Not lacking or deficient; full; complete.
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. To make one's way slowly., The nominative case of the pronoun of the
first person; the word with which a speaker or writer denotes himself..E is
the third tone of the model diatonic scale. Eflat  (E flat) is a tone which is
intermediate between D and E.., Not small, insignificant, or of no account;
considerable; esp., in the phrases a good deal, a good way, a good degree, a
good share or part, etc. Since; because; introducing a reason of something
before advanced, a cause, motive, explanation, justification, or the like, of
an action related or a statement made. It is logically nearly equivalent to
since, or because, but connects less closely, and is sometimes used as a very
general introduction to something suggested by what has gone before. Something
fit to be eaten; food; as, a peach is good eating.; In our old authors, I was
often used for ay (or aye), yes, which is pronounced nearly like it. To
perform, as an action; to execute; to transact to carry out in action; as, to
do a good or a bad act; do our duty; to do what I can. Of or belonging to me;
-- used always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the
predicate; as, the book is mine. See Mine. Being in the greatest or highest
degree, quantity, number, or the like; greatest; as, the utmost assiduity; the
utmost harmony; the utmost misery or happiness. Effect; end; consequence; as,
the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent
factions exist to the prejudice of the state. The announcement by one voice
part of a theme to be repeated by the other parts. Of or belonging to me; --
used always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the
predicate; as, the book is mine. See Mine. A history of the acts and events of
a life; a biography; as, Johnson wrote the life of Milton. In a pleasant
manner.. A thrust in fencing. As an indefinite object after some intransitive
verbs, or after a substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i.
e., to walk). 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. To arrive in sight; to be
manifest; to appear. The preposition to primarily indicates approach and
arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it,
access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; --
opposed to from. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. almost
A number expressing some property or condition of a substance or of an
instrument of precision; as, the dielectric constant of quartz; the
collimation constant of a transit instrument. To set or appoint beforehand; to
settle or establish antecedently. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally
the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and
connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus,
ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do
my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost
constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no
prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject;
thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die for one's country is
noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the
design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to;
as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. In the manner of an infinitive mood., To
act up to; to keep pace with. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an
hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. situations At or in
which place; at the place in which; hence, in the case or instance in which;
-- used relatively. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it
snows; it rains. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. Not any; not one; none; as,
yes, we have no bananas; -- often used as a quantifier. Of or pertaining to a
preposition; of the nature of a preposition. Sense; power of thinking., as
Whether. See Thee. Unlimited; not bounded or restricted; undefined. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. To put a direction or address upon; to
mark with the name and residence of the person to whom anything is sent; to
superscribe; as, to direct a letter. anything defined as an object within an
object-oriented programming language. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. That in which any quality, attribute, or
relation, whether spiritual or material, inheres, or to which any of these
appertain; substance; substratum.; In this or that manner; on this wise., As a
numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc. To have a feeling of love for; to
regard with affection or good will; as, to love one's children and friends; to
love one's country; to love one's God. As sign of the infinitive, to had
originally the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun,
and connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus,
ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do
my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost
constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no
prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject;
thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die for one's country is
noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the
design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to;
as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). To communicate knowledge to; to
teach., As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc..E is the third tone of
the model diatonic scale. Eflat  (E flat) is a tone which is intermediate
between D and E.., As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc. The object of
affection; -- often employed in endearing address; as, he held his love in his
arms; his greatest love was reading. The knowledge or skill received by
instruction or study; acquired knowledge or ideas in any branch of science or
literature; erudition; literature; science; as, he is a man of great
learning.; Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin;
he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of
the state. A metal or plate (often one of a pair) so cut or shaped as to give
a certain desired form to, or impress any desired device on, an object or
surface, by pressure or by a blow; used in forging metals, coining, striking
up sheet metal, etc. Because; by reason that; for that; indicating, in Old
English, the reason of anything. one's A tract of land; a region; the
territory of an independent nation; (as distinguished from any other region,
and with a personal pronoun) the region of one's birth, permanent residence,
or citizenship. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. A person of
rank above a commoner; a nobleman; a peer., As a numeral, I stands for 1, II
for 2, etc..The fifth letter of the English alphabet.., See Thee. The act of
expiring; passage from life to death; loss of life. Indicating that in favor
of which, or in promoting which, anything is, or is done; hence, in behalf of;
in favor of; on the side of; -- opposed to against. one's The inhabitants of
the district from which a jury is drawn.. Whereas. See Thee. An infinitive
form of the verb; a verb in the infinitive mood; the infinitive mood. denotes
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. A plan or scheme formed in the mind of something to be done;
preliminary conception; idea intended to be expressed in a visible form or
carried into action; intention; purpose; -- often used in a bad sense for evil
intention or purpose; scheme; plot. Ere; before; sooner than. To propose, as
an aim, to one's self; to determine upon, as some end or object to be
accomplished; to intend; to design; to resolve; -- often followed by an
infinitive or dependent clause., Real; actual; serious; as in the phrases in
good earnest; in good sooth. Experience. In time past, either in time
immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old; heretofore.
allowed See Thee. prefixing Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by
which, anything is, or is done; by. Indicating the space or time through which
an action or state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of.
Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her
mind. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged
in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state.;
as, Sometimes prefixed to adjectives in an adverbial sense, as nearly
equivalent to how; as, what happy boys! Course; way; path; journey; direction.
an old method of printing the article the (AS.  thorne), the ldquoyrdquo being
used in place of the Anglo-Saxon thorn (thorn). It is sometimes incorrectly
pronounced yemacr.  See The, and Thorn, n., 4. To make public a secret of (a
person); -- used especially of publicizing the fact that a person is
homosexual; as, the gay members were not pleased to be outed by the
investigator. Indicating that instead of which something else controls in the
performing of an action, or that in spite of which anything is done, occurs,
or is; hence, equivalent to notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally
followed by all, aught, anything, etc. Figuratively: To have intellectual
apprehension; to perceive; to know; to understand; to discern; -- often
followed by a preposition, as through, or into.? (See Matte.. The Roman number
symbolizing the value eleven.  Used after a noun it may symbolize the ordinal
number; as, Superbowl XI.. 8). Supported by reason or probability; practically
sufficient; -- opposed to legal or demonstrable; as, a moral evidence; a moral
certainty. Special or temporary character; profession; occupation; assumed or
asserted rank, part, or position.; A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. principles and motives To introduce, a reason or
cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the reason that, because. The
complete apparatus used to control a mechanism or machine in operation, as a
flying machine in flight; By that; by how much; by so much; on that account;
-- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. The state of being which begins with generation,
birth, or germination, and ends with death; also, the time during which this
state continues; that state of an animal or plant in which all or any of its
organs are capable of performing all or any of their functions; -- used of all
animal and vegetable organisms.; as, a An adult male person; a grown-up male
person, as distinguished from a woman or a child. During; in the course of.
The estimate, individual or general, put upon a person or thing; reputation;
as, a man's character for truth and veracity; to give one a bad character.;
Belonging or pertaining to him; -- used as a pronominal adjective or adjective
pronoun; as, tell John his papers are ready; formerly used also for its, but
this use is now obsolete. A written statement as to behavior, competency,
etc., given to a servant. saves The objective case of he. See He. Out of the
neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason
of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement
of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence,
separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates,
the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as
setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the
occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of
to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword
from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the
fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from
bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it
proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. The
act of suspecting; the imagination or apprehension of the existence of
something (esp. something wrong or hurtful) without proof, or upon very slight
evidence, or upon no evidence.., Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar;
they danced to the music of a piano. To stretch out; to prolong in space; to
carry forward or continue in length; as, to extend a line in surveying; to
extend a cord across the street.; Hence, it indicates motion, course, or
tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of
being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going
to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. To be extended, or to bear
extension, without breaking, as elastic or ductile substances.; Comparison;
as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you
will offend him. An attack; an assault. To come or go out; to get out or away;
to become public.; In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Put,
contracted from putteth. Throughly; from beginning to end., as a An elementary
piece of the mechanism of a lock., a one of the elements which, taken
together, comprise a set., Anything unknown, undetermined, or not specifically
designated; a certain indefinite thing; an indeterminate or unknown event; an
unspecified task, work, or thing. imp. amp p. p. of Hold., Ere; before; sooner
than. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. To
be pleased with in a moderate degree; to approve; to take satisfaction in; to
enjoy.., Extended area., Before; sooner than.; Earlier; sooner than; until
then.; In the western United States, one who settles on government land before
it is legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law
gives to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any
one who does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to
gain an unfair advantage. A particle expressing comparison, used after certain
adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better,
other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared
in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in
the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a
preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually
introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want.. A a.
amp n. from Flow, v. i. amp t. With reference to a whole which includes or
comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the first regiment
in the army. Ere; before; sooner than. On; -- used in all the senses of that
word, with which it is interchangeable.; Influence; power.. considered as
establishing a To introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding
verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb. A interrogative
pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect
questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among
several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the
house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die? 
See the Note under What, pron., 1. limits; a That which restricts; limitation;
restraint; as, restrictions on trade.; a The act of qualifying, or the
condition of being qualified.; a restraining That which must exist as the
occasion or concomitant of something else; that which is requisite in order
that something else should take effect; an essential qualification;
stipulation; terms specified., defining Circumlocution; detail., A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. qualifying
The power or faculty of apprehending of forming an idea in the mind; the power
of recalling a past sensation or perception.; as, limitations Denoting
possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the
apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of
heaven. A small degree or quantity; a trifle; as, a thought longer; a thought
better..; as, Addition; Agreement and conjunction of mind, spirit, will,
affections, or the like; harmony; concord.; accumulation. Hence, it indicates
motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or
anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or
action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. To
obtain possession of by force or artifice; to get the custody or control of;
to reduce into subjection to one's power or will; to capture; to seize; to
make prisoner; as, to take an army, a city, or a ship; also, to come upon or
befall; to fasten on; to attack; to seize; -- said of a disease, misfortune,
or the like. Rank; degree; grade; order of priority, advancement, dignity, or
importance; especially, social rank or position; condition; also, official
station; occupation; calling.; Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to
twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. To come by chance; to
come without previous expectation; to fall out.; as, See Thee. An assembly for
worship; as, to attend meeting on Sunday; -- in England, applied distinctively
and disparagingly to the worshiping assemblies of Dissenters. The first and
third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit
(imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. In the service of; connected with; a
member of; as, he is on a newspaper; on a committee. The fifth day of the
week, following Wednesday and preceding Friday.. A reeumlntrant angle; a A
narrow place formed by an angle in bodies or between bodies; a corner; a
recess; a secluded retreat. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. Direction; quarter.. one's Nature; natural instinct
or disposition. To keep in view; to behold; to look at; to view; to gaze
upon.; Convenient; auspicious; favorable; kind; as, a propitious season; a
propitious breeze. aspect; To make a show of; to pretend.; Not hostile; as, a
friendly power or state. Natural or prevailing spirit, or temperament of mind,
especially as shown in intercourse with one's fellow-men; temper of mind.; A
kind act; an act of good will; as, to do a great kindness.; Well, --
especially in the phrase as good, with a following as expressed or implied;
equally well with as much advantage or as little harm as possible. To exercise
an act of volition; to choose; to decide; to determine; to decree...; To
denote the accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes
equivalent to by. Appeal. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use
of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it
as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go,
i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to
lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to
the infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as
where the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e.,
I love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). a Complete; entire; not defective or imperfect; not broken or
fractured; unimpaired; uninjured; integral; as, a whole orange; the egg is
whole; the vessel is whole. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. includes
Ere; before; sooner than. comprises A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. One of the portions, equal or unequal, into which
anything is divided, or regarded as divided; something less than a whole; a
number, quantity, mass, or the like, regarded as going to make up, with
others, a larger number, quantity, mass, etc., whether actually separate or
not; a piece; a fragment; a fraction; a division; a member; a constituent.
Characterized by a certain manner or style in speaking; -- often in
composition; as, a pleasant-spoken man. Denoting reference to a thing; about;
concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of
many things.; as, See Thee. The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal
or instrumental; -- so called because it generally expresses the air, and has
a preeumlminence in the combined effect. With reference to a whole which
includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the
first regiment in the army. The possessive of he; as, the book is his. The
collective body of persons who live in one house, and under one head or
manager; a household, including parents, children, and servants, and, as the
case may be, lodgers or boarders.; See Thee. Preceding all others of a series
or kind; the ordinal of one; earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first
year of a reign. To form into classified units or bodies; to systematize
according to classes, districts or the like. One who is in office; -- the
opposite of out. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. army. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. The common people; the vulgar; the multitude, -- comprehending all
persons not distinguished by rank, office, education, or profession.; See
Thee. The people; the community. Persons, generally; an indefinite number of
men and women; folks; population, or part of population; as, country people;
-- sometimes used as an indefinite subject or verb, like on in French, and man
in German; as, people in adversity.; See Thee. The amount or number by which
one aggregate exceeds all other aggregates with which it is contrasted;
especially, the number by which the votes for a successful candidate exceed
those for all other candidates; as, he is elected by a majority of five
hundred votes. See Plurality. During; in the course of. One's subjects; fellow
citizens; companions; followers., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. During; in the course of. a A body of
people having common rights, privileges, or interests, or living in the same
place under the same laws and regulations; as, a community of monks. Hence a
number of animals living in a common home or with some apparent association of
interests.. phrases, and A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or i. Originally,
an interrogative pronoun, later, a relative pronoun also; -- used always
substantively, and either as singular or plural.  See the Note under What,
pron., 1.  As interrogative pronouns, who and whom ask the question: What or
which person or persons? Who and whom, as relative pronouns (in the sense of
that), are properly used of persons (corresponding to which, as applied to
things), but are sometimes, less properly and now rarely, used of animals,
plants, etc.  Who and whom, as compound relatives, are also used especially of
persons, meaning the person that; the persons that; the one that; whosoever.
The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. One who is in office; -- the
opposite of out. Any service other than that of ordination and the Mass; any
prescribed religious service.; -- See Thee. Placed directly in front of
another part or organ, as a stamen which stands before a petal. Denoting
nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of
the town; within an hour of the appointed time. A place or space outside of
something; a nook or corner; an angle projecting outward; an open space; --
chiefly used in the phrase ins and outs; as, the ins and outs of a question.
See under In.. A The act of a relator at whose instance a suit is begun.; esp.
a Among Trinitarians, one of the three subdivisions of the Godhead (the
Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an hypostasis. switched on. To denote a
connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance, etc.;
hence, on the side of. another Near; in the neighborhood; present; as, there
was no person by at the time. The act of marrying, or the state of being
married; legal union of a man and a woman for life, as husband and wife;
wedlock; matrimony. Of two alternatives conceived of, this by preference to,
or as more likely than, the other; somewhat. A particle expressing comparison,
used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or
diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually
followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however,
the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then
considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is
expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer
than that you should want. Aside; as, to lay by; to put by. Relationship by
descent from a common ancestor; consanguinity; kinship.; -- used A
reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. a Free from constraint or obligation;
not bound by duty, habit, etc.; -- with from or of. and Not definite; not
limited, defined, or specified; not explicit; not determined or fixed upon;
not precise; uncertain; vague; confused; obscure; as, an indefinite time,
plan, etc., and At times; at intervals; not always; now and then;
occasionally. a Having the power to comprehend or understand many things.,
Perception by the sensory organs of the body; sensation; sensibility;
feeling.. In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a
pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To mark out plainly; to signify by
a visible sign; to serve as the sign or name of; to indicate; to point out;
as, the hands of the clock denote the hour. a To bring together the parts of;
to consolidate; as, to close the ranks of an army; -- often used with up. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. In the line
of descent; not collateral; as, a descendant in the direct line. Reference;
respect; regard. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. Repugnance;
contrariety of sentiment, interest, or purpose; antipathy. A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. An act of an open enemy; a
hostile deed; especially in the plural, acts of warfare; attacks of an enemy. 
See hostilities; -- Equal in measure but not admitting of superposition; --
applied to magnitudes; as, a square may be equivalent to a triangle. The
preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the
direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or
tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. against.
Consisting Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as,
within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. a Older,
younger, or more remote, by single generation; -- often used before grand to
indicate one degree more remote in the direct line of descent; as,
great-grandfather (a grandfather's or a grandmother's father), great-grandson,
etc. The distinction of objects, as one, or more than one (in some languages,
as one, or two, or more than two), expressed (usually) by a difference in the
form of a word; thus, the singular number and the plural number are the names
of the forms of a word indicating the objects denoted or referred to by the
word as one, or as more than one.; Consisting of poetic numbers; rhythmical;
measured and counted; melodious; musical.; Shorn; shaven. Not many; small,
limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of units or
individuals constituting a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few people..
Of various or contrary nature, form, or quality; partially or totally unlike;
dissimilar; as, different kinds of food or drink; different states of health;
different shapes; different degrees of excellence. Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. To introduce, a
reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the reason that,
because. A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or
clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a
sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference,
however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and
genders, and was formerly used of persons., Ere; before; sooner than. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A symbol
representing a unit, as 1, or i. Originally, an interrogative pronoun, later,
a relative pronoun also; -- used always substantively, and either as singular
or plural.  See the Note under What, pron., 1.  As interrogative pronouns, who
and whom ask the question: What or which person or persons? Who and whom, as
relative pronouns (in the sense of that), are properly used of persons
(corresponding to which, as applied to things), but are sometimes, less
properly and now rarely, used of animals, plants, etc.  Who and whom, as
compound relatives, are also used especially of persons, meaning the person
that; the persons that; the one that; whosoever., 3d pers. sing. pres. of
Have. The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr. tense
plural of Be. See 1st Bee. specified; A word used to express negation,
prohibition, denial, or refusal. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. Not different or other; not another or others;
identical; unchanged.; Wot not; know not; knows not. The same; the selfsame;
the very same; not different; as, the identical person or thing.; additional;
Next to the first in value, power, excellence, dignity, or rank; secondary;
subordinate; inferior. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a
number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had
some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. The
sum of one and one; the number next greater than one, and next less than
three; two units or objects.. words, With reference to movement or tendency
toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to
put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in
God. A retinue of servants; a household. phrases, and To inclose; to take in;
to harvest. a communications channel; as, my cell phone had a bad connection.
To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament with its
stars; a bride with a large fortune. A retinue of servants; a household.
Alternate; second; -- used esp. in connection with every; as, every other day,
that is, each alternate day, every second day. words, Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. 3d pers. sing.
pres. of Have. a Being with young, as a female; having conceived; great with
young; breeding; teeming; gravid; preparing to bring forth. That which is
meant or intended; intent; purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was
apparent., Ere; before; sooner than. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. used With a part omitted; as, elliptically expressed.. 3The
nominal of the second tone in the model major scale (that in C), or of the
fourth tone in the relative minor scale of C (that in A minor), or of the key
tone in the relative minor of F. Light blue; grayish blue; -- a term applied
to different shades at different periods.. To cry out; to complain.. pres.
Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source,
descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. To
hold, regard, or esteem.. a Laden with that which is weighty; encumbered;
burdened; bowed down, either with an actual burden, or with care, grief, pain,
disappointment. To denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance,
assistance, countenance, etc.; hence, on the side of. Full of, or burdened by,
import; charged with great interests; restless; anxious. See Content, n., The
quality or state of being significant., Yellow or gold color, -- represented
in drawing or engraving by small dots. That which passes, flows, or is sent
out; the whole quantity sent forth or emitted at one time; as, an issue of
bank notes; the daily issue of a newspaper.; Filled with emotions. Denoting
that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the
like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. That which follows
something on which it depends; that which is produced by a cause; a result.
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
results; Adapted to turn the balance in the mind, or to convince; important;
forcible; serious; momentous.; as, A pregnant woman. replies. Perception by
the sensory organs of the body; sensation; sensibility; feeling.; A mechanical
agent; that from which useful mechanical energy is derived; as, water power;
steam power; hand power, etc. Denoting the material of which anything is
composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a
wreath of mist; a cup of water. Having the faculty of thought; cogitative;
capable of a regular train of ideas; as, man is a thinking being.., To make
yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to dye yellow. Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Money;
riches; wealth. To change or alter, as if by dyeing or painting; to give a
false appearance to; usually, to give a specious appearance to; to cause to
appear attractive; to make plausible; to palliate or excuse; as, the facts
were colored by his prejudices., -- represented The specific signification of
in is situation or place with respect to surrounding, environment,
encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying being, resting, or moving
within limits, or within circumstances or conditions of any kind conceived of
as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly or in part. In its
different applications, it approaches some of the meanings of, and sometimes
is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and among. The process of
pulling out and elongating the sliver from the carding machine, by revolving
rollers, to prepare it for spinning. A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. An impression from an engraved plate, block of
wood, or other material; a print. Near; in the neighborhood; present; as,
there was no person by at the time. Same as Little go. See under Little, a.
dots. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Next after the second; coming after two others; -- the ordinal of
three; as, the third hour in the day. To represent as a person; to personify;
to impersonate. Each; individual; as, to convey several parcels of land, all
and singular. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or
quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to
spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Enduring; solid; firm;
substantial. A word; a vocable. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was
on Thursday., With reference to a whole which includes or comprises the part
spoken of; as, the first in his family; the first regiment in the army. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Pointing out;
bringing to notice; giving intimation or knowledge of something not visible or
obvious. Manner of conceiving and expressing action or being, as positive,
possible, conditional, hypothetical, obligatory, imperitive, etc., without
regard to other accidents, such as time, person, number, etc.; as, the
indicative mood; the imperitive mood; the infinitive mood; the subjunctive
mood. Same as Mode., To nominate for support at a public school or other
institution . One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding
auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified;
the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.; as, The
chemical symbol for helium. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.;
The man or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is
assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually
referring to a specified subject already indicated. The third person singular
of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is;
he is a man.  See Be. a One of the piece with which certain games, as chess or
draughts, are played..  The pope or his court at Rome; as, to appeal to the
see of Rome. To exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality
or as a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain predicate,
that is, as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or
as identical with what is specified, -- a word or words for the predicate
being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an
animal; to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation
is the cessation of existence; that is the man.. used With reference to
movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes
equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in
death; to put our trust in God. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. Constitution; mode of construction,
organization, etc.; system; as, a republican form of government. Denoting
nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of
the town; within an hour of the appointed time. an Omission. See Ellipsis...
Accompaniment; as, This or that female; the woman understood or referred to;
the animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine, which was
spoken of. imp. of Sing. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency
toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being
regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a
trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. Belonging or pertaining to him; --
used as a pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers
are ready; formerly used also for its, but this use is now obsolete. A
stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger,
and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of
catgut, -- played upon with the fingers.; The plural of he, she, or it. They
is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes
refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. danced As sign of the
infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. The written
and printed notation of a musical composition; the score. Denoting the agent,
or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. a A
well-known musical instrument somewhat resembling the harpsichord, and
consisting of a series of wires of graduated length, thickness, and tension,
struck by hammers moved by keys.. A A legal dissolution of the marriage
contract by a court or other body having competent authority.  This is
properly a divorce, and called, technically, divorce a vinculo matrimonii.
Given. In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along
with; as, come and sit by me. a Master; lord; teacher; -- a Jewish title of
respect or honor for a teacher or doctor of the law. With privilege or
possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by
descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. accordance To denote
association in respect of situation or environment; hence, among; in the
company of. Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or
resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish. An oath, as in the presence
of a court.; also, A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. An example for instruction or warning. attesting Hence, it indicates
motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or
anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or
action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. By that;
by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The separation
of a married woman from the bed and board of her husband -- divorce a mensa et
toro (or a mensa et thoro), ldquofrom bed and boardrdquo.. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. act A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Stately. Denoting the
material of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a
throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water.
possessing, A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. A tenure; a farm or other estate held of another. as one's To hold as
property; to have a legal or rightful title to; to be the proprietor or
possessor of; to possess; as, to own a house.. Denoting A particular portion
constituting a part of something continuous; esp., a portion of a book,
speech, or musical composition; a paragraph; a clause. Out of the neighborhood
of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by
aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action,
being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation,
etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of
space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. Any person,
indefinitely; a person or body; as, what one would have well done, one should
do one's self. To set; to settle; to establish. Accord; adaptation; as, an
occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. another; Out of the
neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason
of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement
of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence,
separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates,
the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as
setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the
occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of
to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword
from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the
fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from
bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it
proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony..; As
Any symbol or emblem which prefigures, typifles, or represents, an idea; a
type; hence, sometimes, a picture. In a general sense, from, or out from;
proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety
of applications; as: By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; --
used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. In the manner of an infinitive mood.,
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. See Have. In the original time, or in an original manner; primarily;
from the beginning or origin; not by derivation, or imitation. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Common occurrence;
ordinary experience. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating
origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of
noble blood. Supreme; highest in degree; utmost. defined, Holding the
superiority; prevalent; controlling; as, a governing wind; a governing party
in a state. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. An infinitive form of the verb; a verb in the infinitive mood; the
infinitive mood. as a Expressed in words, whether spoken or written, but
commonly in spoken words; hence, spoken; oral; not written; as, a verbal
contract; verbal testimony. A word used as the designation or appellation of a
creature or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive., and
syntactically connecting sentences or elements of a sentence. As a substance
for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. as Not
straightforward or upright; unfair; dishonest; tending to mislead or deceive.
Sight; show; appearance; aspect. See Withe. a In the direction toward which
stars appear to move. See Following, 2. A word which affirms or predicates
something of some person or thing; a part of speech expressing being, action,
or the suffering of action. Ere; before; sooner than. adjective; In this or
that manner; on this wise., Not slow or hesitating; quick in action or
perception of any kind; dexterous; prompt; easy; expert; as, a ready
apprehension; ready wit; a ready writer or workman. The preposition to
primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a
place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without
arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To be with young; to be
pregnant; to gestate., I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its
form from the Phoelignician, through the Latin and the Greek. The
Phoelignician letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was
nearly the same as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete. Etymologically
I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent, beverage, L.
bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. thornynne; E. dominion, donjon,
dungeon..E is the third tone of the model diatonic scale. Eflat  (E flat) is a
tone which is intermediate between D and E.., On the point; about; on the
brink; near; -- with a following infinitive. Until; till. Carrying on its
ordinary business; conducting business, or carried on, with an indefinite
prospect of continuance; -- chiefly used in the phrases a going business,
concern, etc.; Clever; skillful; dexterous; ready; handy; -- followed
especially by at. In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to
has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To take food; to feed;
especially, to take solid, in distinction from liquid, food; to board., I, the
ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its form from the Phoelignician,
through the Latin and the Greek. The Phoelignician letter was probably of
Egyptian origin. Its original value was nearly the same as that of the Italian
I, or long e as in mete. Etymologically I is most closely related to e, y, j,
g; as in dint, dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS.
thornynne; E. dominion, donjon, dungeon..E is the third tone of the model
diatonic scale. Eflat  (E flat) is a tone which is intermediate between D and
E.., Not small, insignificant, or of no account; considerable; esp., in the
phrases a good deal, a good way, a good degree, a good share or part, etc.
Indicating that toward which the action of anything is directed, or the point
toward which motion is made; &unr_;ntending to go to. Something fit to be
eaten; food; as, a peach is good eating.; As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for
2, etc. To cash or to advance money for, as a bill or note. Of or belonging to
me; -- used always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the
predicate; as, the book is mine. See Mine. Being in the greatest or highest
degree, quantity, number, or the like; greatest; as, the utmost assiduity; the
utmost harmony; the utmost misery or happiness. Accompaniment; as, she sang to
his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. A role for a leading man or
leading woman; also, one who plays such a role. Of or belonging to me; -- used
always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate;
as, the book is mine. See Mine. The potential principle, or force, by which
the organs of animals and plants are started and continued in the performance
of their several and cooperative functions; the vital force, whether regarded
as physical or spiritual. In a pleasant manner.. The end; esp. the larger or
thicker end, or the blunt, in distinction from the sharp, end.  Now disused in
this sense, being replaced by butt{2}.  See 1st Butt. As a substance for any
noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. 3d pers. sing.
pres. of Have. To move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or
some place or person indicated; -- opposed to go. Comparison; as, three is to
nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. To
take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. almost A number whose value,
when ascertained (as by observation) and substituted in a general mathematical
formula expressing an astronomical law, completely determines that law and
enables predictions to be made of its effect in particular cases. That which
is prefixed; esp., one or more letters or syllables combined or united with
the beginning of a word to modify its signification; as, pre- in prefix, con-
in conjure. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a
husband to her mind. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. An infinitive form of the verb; a verb in the infinitive mood;
the infinitive mood., Level, smooth, or equal in surface; not rough; free from
irregularities; hence uniform in rate of motion of action; as, even ground; an
even speed; an even course of conduct. With reference to circumstances or
conditions; as, he is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light.
situations Whereas. As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a
sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned,
or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John. 3d
pers. sing. pres. of Have. A negative vote; one who votes in the negative; as,
to call for the ayes and noes; the noes have it. Of or pertaining to a
preposition; of the nature of a preposition. That which is meant or intended;
intent; purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was apparent., as
Whether. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. In the manner of an infinitive mood. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. To put a direction or address upon; to mark with the name and
residence of the person to whom anything is sent; to superscribe; as, to
direct a letter. That which is put, or which may be regarded as put, in the
way of some of the senses; something visible or tangible and persists for an
appreciable time; as, he observed an object in the distance; all the objects
in sight; he touched a strange object in the dark. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The incident, scene,
figure, group, etc., which it is the aim of the artist to represent.; The
commoner kind of frankincense, or that obtained from the Norway spruce, the
long-leaved pine, and other conifers., I, the ninth letter of the English
alphabet, takes its form from the Phoelignician, through the Latin and the
Greek. The Phoelignician letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original
value was nearly the same as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete.
Etymologically I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent,
beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. thornynne; E. dominion,
donjon, dungeon. Especially, devoted attachment to, or tender or passionate
affection for, one of the opposite sex. Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. To gain knowledge or information of; to ascertain by inquiry, study,
or investigation; to receive instruction concerning; to fix in the mind; to
acquire understanding of, or skill; as, to learn the way; to learn a lesson;
to learn dancing; to learn to skate; to learn the violin; to learn the truth
about something., I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its form
from the Phoelignician, through the Latin and the Greek. The Phoelignician
letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was nearly the same
as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete. Etymologically I is most
closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin,
AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. thornynne; E. dominion, donjon, dungeon..E is the third
tone of the model diatonic scale. Eflat  (E flat) is a tone which is
intermediate between D and E.., I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet,
takes its form from the Phoelignician, through the Latin and the Greek. The
Phoelignician letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was
nearly the same as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete. Etymologically
I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent, beverage, L.
bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. thornynne; E. dominion, donjon,
dungeon. To have a feeling of love for; to regard with affection or good will;
as, to love one's children and friends; to love one's country; to love one's
God. The acquisition of knowledge or skill; as, the learning of languages; the
learning of telegraphy.; Addition; union; accumulation. That which is, or
might be, determined, by a throw of the die; hazard; chance. Indicating that
in prevention of which, or through fear of which, anything is done. one's
Rural regions, as opposed to a city or town. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. A European fish; the lyrie., In our old authors, I was often
used for ay (or aye), yes, which is pronounced nearly like it..E is the third
tone of the model diatonic scale. Eflat  (E flat) is a tone which is
intermediate between D and E.., See Thee. In the act of dying; destined to
death; mortal; perishable; as, dying bodies. Because; by reason that; for
that; indicating, in Old English, the reason of anything. one's A jury, as
representing the citizens of a country.. At or in which place; at the place in
which; hence, in the case or instance in which; -- used relatively. By that;
by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Unlimited; not
bounded or restricted; undefined. denotes A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. The realization of an inventive or decorative
plan; esp., a work of decorative art considered as a new creation; conception
or plan shown in completed work; as, this carved panel is a fine design, or of
a fine design. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. To propose, as an aim, to one's self; to determine upon, as some end or
object to be accomplished; to intend; to design; to resolve; -- often followed
by an infinitive or dependent clause., That which possesses desirable
qualities, promotes success, welfare, or happiness, is serviceable, fit,
excellent, kind, benevolent, etc.; -- opposed to evil. Experience. In time
past, either in time immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of
old; heretofore. allowed A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. prefixing During; in the course of. Indicating that in favor of
which, or in promoting which, anything is, or is done; hence, in behalf of; in
favor of; on the side of; -- opposed to against. Character; condition of
being; purpose subserved or office filled. See Thee. Addition; union;
accumulation.; as, As an interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions
regarding either persons or things; as, what is this? what did you say? what
poem is this? what child is lost? Course; way; path; journey; direction. Yea;
yes. To make public a secret of (a person); -- used especially of publicizing
the fact that a person is homosexual; as, the gay members were not pleased to
be outed by the investigator. Indicating the space or time through which an
action or state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of. To
have an interview with; especially, to make a call upon; to visit; as, to go
to see a friend.? (See Matte.. The Roman number symbolizing the value eleven. 
Used after a noun it may symbolize the ordinal number; as, Superbowl XI.. 8).
In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant
meaning, or is used elliptically. A divorce granted by a Rabbi in accordance
with Jewish law; also, the document attesting to the divorce. Something that
may be grasped; means of support. Denoting reference to a thing; about;
concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of
many things. With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid
of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by fire;
profit is made by commerce; to take by force. A force acting on a body in the
direction of its motion.; Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they
danced to the music of a piano. To have or receive advantage or profit; to
acquire gain; to grow rich; to advance in interest, health, or happiness; to
make progress; as, the sick man gains daily. The thing possessed; that which
any one occupies, owns, or controls; in the plural, property in the aggregate;
wealth; dominion; as, foreign possessions. Denoting possession or ownership,
or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the
power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven.; In many phrases, and
in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. To solicit; to entreat.; In many phrases, and in connection with
many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. acquire,
The specific signification of in is situation or place with respect to
surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying
being, resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or conditions
of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly
or in part. In its different applications, it approaches some of the meanings
of, and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and
among. any Away..; From this time; in the future; as, a week hence., As an
indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used
humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). indicates A puppet show
or puppet., Progress from point to point without change of direction; any part
of a progress from one place to another, which is in a straight line, or on
one direction; as, a ship in a long voyage makes many courses; a course
measured by a surveyor between two stations; also, a progress without
interruption or rest; a heat; as, one course of a race., A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Direction or course toward
any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient influence to
bring about an effect or result. Tending to; in the direction of; in behalf
of. a To pass time; to delay., a A political body, or body politic; the whole
body of people who are united under one government, whatever may be the form
of the government; a nation. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. To put under conditions; to require to pass a new
examination or to make up a specified study, as a condition of remaining in
one's class or in college; as, to condition a student who has failed in some
branch of study., an aim, Ere; before; sooner than. anything Capacious; large;
comprehensive. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number
or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to
spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. That which
exists in any form, whether it be material or spiritual, actual or ideal;
living existence, as distinguished from a thing without life; as, a human
being; spiritual beings. regarded as a To apply a limit to, or set a limit
for; to terminate, circumscribe, or restrict, by a limit or limits; as, to
limit the acreage of a crop; to limit the issue of paper money; to limit one's
ambitions or aspirations; to limit the meaning of a word. Accord; adaptation;
as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. a Direction or
course toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient
influence to bring about an effect or result., One of the several strains or
pieces, each complete in itself, with its own time and rhythm, which make up a
larger work; as, the several movements of a suite or a symphony., A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. action; as,
Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a
relative pronoun. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. The act of
moving in any manner; traveling; as, the going is bad. In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. a To sell or exchange in commerce; to barter.; Any one; the man
or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun.
The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Increasing in wealth, power,
or distinction; as, a rising state; a rising character. Apposition;
connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. In the
public sense, all objects, esp. material objects, which have economic utility.
and A nice sense of what is right, just, and true, with course of life
correspondent thereto; strict conformity to the duty imposed by conscience,
position, or privilege; integrity; uprightness; trustworthness.. A To separate
or disunite; to sunder. Acknowledged or assumed as a supposition. Aside; as,
to lay by; to put by. a Master; lord; teacher; -- a Jewish title of respect or
honor for a teacher or doctor of the law. With privilege or possession; --
used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by descent; in by
purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. accordance To denote a connection
of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance, etc.; hence, on the
side of. Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or
resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish. Collectively, the whole
body of rules relating to one subject, or emanating from one source; --
including usually the writings pertaining to them, and judicial proceedings
under them; as, divine law; English law; Roman law; the law of real property;
insurance law.; also, See Thee. An original or official paper relied upon as
the basis, proof, or support of anything else; -- in its most extended sense,
including any writing, book, or other instrument conveying information in the
case; any material substance on which the thoughts of men are represented by
any species of conventional mark or symbol. attesting Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
To dissolve the marriage contract of, either wholly or partially; to separate
by divorce... a Adapted Accord; adaptation; as, an The principal business of
one's life; the principal work by which one earns one's livelihood; vocation;
employment; profession; calling; trade; avocation; as, these days many people
continue to practice their occupation well into their seventies.
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. Belonging or pertaining to him; -- used as a pronominal adjective or
adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers are ready; formerly used also for
its, but this use is now obsolete. To take sparingly.; A woman; a female; --
used substantively. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. a To direct and manage with
frugality; to use or employ to good purpose and the best advantage; to spend,
apply, or use, with economy. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency
toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being
regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a
trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. The form of the objective and the
possessive case of the personal pronoun she; as, I saw her with her purse out.
To obey; as, to mind parents; the dog minds his master.. Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. Sake;
interest; advantage. Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or
office filled. appear As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of
last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday.;
Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand.
To cause to stand; to establish; to enact. subjectively; Addition; union;
accumulation. To form an estimate; to have regard to the value; to consider.,
To put by fraud in the place of another., Ere; before; sooner than. To exhibit
to another mind in language; to show; to give one's own impressions and
judgement of; to bring before the mind; to set forth; sometimes, to give an
account of; to describe.. a Rough; acid; sour, as liquors; as, hard cider.
Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or
condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a
tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to
wealth and honor. To pass; to make way; to pierce. Also used figuratively. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. To contain;
to embrace; to include; as, the states comprehended in the Austrian Empire.;
An abyss.; -- characterized by active opposition; as, two bitterly opposing
schools of thought. Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to
twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. Not intellectually
deep; not profound; not penetrating deeply; simple; not wise or knowing;
ignorant; superficial; as, a shallow mind; shallow learning. A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Reaching or comprehending
only what is obvious or apparent; not deep or profound; shallow; -- said
especially in respect to study, learning, and the like; as, a superficial
scholar; superficial knowledge.; To entangle; to involve; to make perplexing.;
Of or pertaining to mystery; containing a mystery; difficult or impossible to
understand; inexplicable; obscure; not revealed or explained; enigmatical;
incomprehensible.; Shorn; shaven. Easily discovered, seen, or understood;
readily perceived by the eye or the intellect; plain; evident; apparent; as,
an obvious meaning; an obvious remark.; Not noticeable; humble; mean.; as, a
Strongly colored; dark; intense; not light or thin; as, deep blue or crimson.
That which is subjected, or submitted to, any physical operation or process;
specifically (Anat.), a dead body used for the purpose of dissection. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A small
extent of ground; a plat; as, a garden plot.. Rather than.; In front of;
preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand before the fire; before the house.;
In the western United States, one who settles on government land before it is
legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives
to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who
does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an
unfair advantage. A particle expressing comparison, used after certain
adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better,
other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared
in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in
the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a
preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually
introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want..
Producing, Ere; before; sooner than. Possession; goods; estate. adequate
Hence, vested authority to act in a given case; as, the business was referred
to a committee with power. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. To be of force, importance, or weight; to matter. Accord;
adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. To
draw out; to extend; to lengthen; to prolong; as, to produce a man's life to
threescore., an Purposed; designed; as, intended harm or help. Goods;
movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embrace real as well as
personal property; as, the people escaped from the town with their effects.;
adequate; Causing effects; producing results; that makes the effect to be what
it is; actively operative; not inactive, slack, or incapable; characterized by
energetic and useful activity; as, an efficient officer, power.; Producing the
appropriate or designed effect; efficacious; effective; as, an operative dose,
rule, or penalty.; Having the power or quality of deciding a question or
controversy; putting an end to contest or controversy; final; conclusive.. See
Thee. act Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with;
as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod.
impressing, Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. Rank; condition; quality; as, the state of honor. Denoting part of an
aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from
amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. That which exists in any form, whether it
be material or spiritual, actual or ideal; living existence, as distinguished
from a thing without life; as, a human being; spiritual beings. having the
conscious mind deeply or markedly affected or influenced; -- usually used with
by or with.; By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Association; company. Denoting that from which anything proceeds;
indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of
kings; he is of noble blood. a To put a stamp on, as for postage; as, to stamp
a letter; to stamp a legal document., A fontanel., A pen; an author's pen.,
Ere; before; sooner than. Strength of mind; resolution; independence;
individuality; as, he has a great deal of character., On; along; in
traversing. Compare 5. Foreign; relating to or connected with foreign nations;
as, external trade or commerce; the external relations of a state or kingdom.
To do violence to; to overpower, or to compel by violence to one's will;
especially, to ravish; to violate; to commit rape upon. Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Out of the common path;
aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside,
secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding
notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely
used in composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment,
by-design, by-interest, etc. Power or authority arising from elevated station,
excelence of character or intellect, wealth, etc.; reputation; acknowledged
ascendency; as, he is a man of influence in the community.. At Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To approach; to
come nearer; as, the ship neared the land.; adjacent Hence, it indicates
motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or
anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or
action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor.; --
indicating Position, as regards the conditions and circumstances of the case.,
Vacated or relinquished space; room; stead (the departure or removal of
another being or thing being implied)., Yellow or gold color, -- represented
in drawing or engraving by small dots. The state of being posited, or placed;
the manner in which anything is placed; attitude; condition; as, a firm, an
inclined, or an upright position.; as, In reference or relation to; as, on our
part expect punctuality; a satire on society. By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Pointing out a contrast, or
denoting a particular thing or person different from some other specified; --
used as a correlative adjective, with or without the. Personal possession;
ownership; hence, control; direction; management; -- usually in the plural.,
Of. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Not this, but the contrary; opposite; as, the other side of a river.
To cooperate.; See Thee. To sail; to float. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. At the peril of, or for the safety of. A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. American The side of a thing..
In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along with;
as, come and sit by me. To introduce a clause employed as the object of the
preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb.; Used in
specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a cabin twenty feet by forty. For what
reason; from what cause. A thing uncommon, wonderful, or noticeable; something
considerable.; Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving
the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral
matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play,
by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. Provided that; on
condition that; in case that; if. A great quantity; a great deal; also, an
indefinite quantity; as, you have as much as I.; In progress; proceeding;
ongoing; as, a game is on. As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as
a demonstrative pronoun. account; -- used In presence or sight of; face to
face with; facing. comparatives; as, By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. One who longs for anything. The plural
nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a
person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one,
as the subject of an action expressed by a verb. To be permanent or durable;
to endure; to last. With reference to physical surrounding, personal states,
etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live
in fear. To violate human rights, law, or propriety; to commit an offense; to
trespass; to transgress., By that; by how much; by so much; on that account;
-- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. Greater; superior; increased; Hard to do or to
make; beset with difficulty; attended with labor, trouble, or pains; not easy;
arduous. The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the
masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they,
their or theirs, them). The third person singular of the substantive verb be,
in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled. To return
to a good state; to amend or correct one's own character or habits; as, a man
of settled habits of vice will seldom reform.. The formal decision, or
expression of views, of a judge, an umpire, a counselor, or other party
officially called upon to consider and decide upon a matter or point
submitted.; The act of judging; the operation of the mind, involving
comparison and discrimination, by which a knowledge of the values and
relations of things, whether of moral qualities, intellectual concepts,
logical propositions, or material facts, is obtained; as, by careful judgment
he avoided the peril; by a series of wrong judgments he forfeited confidence.;
A tenet, or the body of tenets, held by the advocates of any class of views;
doctrine; creed.. Rather than.; Under the cognizance or jurisdiction of.; In
the western United States, one who settles on government land before it is
legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives
to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who
does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an
unfair advantage. Then. See Then.. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. One who represents, or stands in the place of,
another. The degree to which a lens, mirror, or any optical instrument,
magnifies; in the telescope, and usually in the microscope, the number of
times it multiplies, or augments, the apparent diameter of an object;
sometimes, in microscopes, the number of times it multiplies the apparent
surface.; See Thee. A military or naval force; an army or navy; a great host.
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. To construct again; to rebuild; to remodel; to form again or anew.
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To
combine again. See Thee. materials provided with necessary furnishings; --
used especially of rented apartments having furniture included in the rental
price; as, a furnished apartment.  Opposite of unfurnished. Passing near;
going past; past; beyond; as, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by. To
point out to with authority; to instruct as a superior; to order; as, he
directed them to go. apprehension; See Thee. Assemblage of related things;
collection; complication. Ability to act or perform, whether inborn or
cultivated; capacity for any natural function; especially, an original mental
power or capacity for any of the well-known classes of mental activity;
psychical or soul capacity; capacity for any of the leading kinds of soul
activity, as knowledge, feeling, volition; intellectual endowment or gift;
power; as, faculties of the mind or the soul. usually termed See Thee. A
substance composed predominantly of a synthetic organic high polymer capable
of being cast or molded; many varieties of plastic are used to produce
articles of commerce (after 1900). [MW10 gives origin of word as 1905] A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Having the
power to create; exerting the act of creation. The product arising from the
multiplication of a number into itself; as, a square is the second power, and
a cube is third power, of a number.; See Thee. An image or representation of
anything formed in the mind; conception; thought; idea; conceit..; Affecting
To denote association in respect of situation or environment; hence, among; in
the company of. Vigorous; effective; forcible; powerful. emotions; Exciting
surprise; extraordinary; of a nature to excite wonder and astonishment; as,
surprising bravery; a surprising escape from danger.; Possessing force;
characterized by force, efficiency, or energy; powerful; efficacious;
impressive; influential.; Making, or tending to make, an impression; having
power to impress; adapted to excite attention and feeling, to touch the
sensibilities, or affect the conscience; as, an impressive discourse; an
impressive scene.; In a high degree; to no small extent; exceedingly;
excessively; extremely; as, a very great mountain; a very bright sun; a very
cold day; the river flows very rapidly; he was very much hurt. Capable of
being observed; worthy of notice; likely to attract observation; conspicuous.;
as, a Affecting with strong emotions; surprising; forcible; impressive; very
noticeable; as, a striking representation or image; a striking resemblance. A
likeness, a picture, or a model; as, a representation of the human face, or
figure, and the like. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read
or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but
not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. The figure or picture of any object formed at the focus of a
lens or mirror, by rays of light from the several points of the object
symmetrically refracted or reflected to corresponding points in such focus;
this may be received on a screen, a photographic plate, or the retina of the
eye, and viewed directly by the eye, or with an eyeglass, as in the telescope
and microscope; the likeness of an object formed by reflection; as, to see
one's image in a mirror.; a a. amp n. from Strike, v. A comparison; a simile..
A bright golden color, reflecting more light than any other except white; the
color of that part of the spectrum which is between the orange and green. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Money;
riches; wealth. That which covers or hides the real character of anything;
semblance; excuse; disguise; appearance., -- represented With reference to a
limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my
life. The process of pulling out and elongating the sliver from the carding
machine, by revolving rollers, to prepare it for spinning. A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. That which is engraved; an
engraved plate. Aside; as, to lay by; to put by. To make little or less. dots.
That which is connected with a principal or greater thing; an appendage; an
appurtenance. Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office
filled. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. To
separate (a collection of objects) into smaller collections; as, to part one's
hair in the middle. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating
origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of
noble blood. an axillary A substance in the form of a powder, especially when
condensed from sublimation; as, the flowers of sulphur. A compound relative or
indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those
which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Approaching; coming near. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. The largest throw
in a match at dice; a throw at dice within given limits, as in the game of
hazard. To move forward against an obstacle, as a vessel against a current.;
On the side next the axis of inflorescence; -- said of an axillary flower..
Denoting A constituent of character or capacity; quality; faculty; talent; --
usually in the plural with a collective sense. Denoting that by which a person
or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due
to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. an aggregate Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. Possessing, or being in a state of, heath and
soundness; healthy; sound; well.; That which is connected with a principal or
greater thing; an appendage; an appurtenance. Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. a To give or apply a number or numbers to; to assign the place of in
a series by order of number; to designate the place of by a number or numeral;
as, to number the houses in a street, or the apartments in a building. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A determinate
or estimated amount; a sum or bulk; a certain portion or part; sometimes, a
considerable amount; a large portion, bulk, or sum; as, a medicine taken in
quantities, that is, in large quantities. mentioned; Beyond the limits of
concealment, confinement, privacy, constraint, etc., actual or figurative;
hence, not in concealment, constraint, etc., in, or into, a state of freedom,
openness, disclosure, publicity, etc.; a matter of public knowledge; as, the
sun shines out; he laughed out, to be out at the elbows; the secret has leaked
out, or is out; the disease broke out on his face; the book is out. Denoting
nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of
the town; within an hour of the appointed time.; Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. amongst; as,
Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men
of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. As a
demonstrative pronoun, this denotes something that is present or near in place
or time, or something just mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned.
Small in force or efficiency; not strong; weak; slight; inconsiderable; as,
little attention or exertion;little effort; little care or diligence. The man
or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is
assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually
referring to a specified subject already indicated. See Have. About; near;
more or less; -- used commonly with numerals, but formerly also with a
singular substantive of time or distance; as, a village of some eighty houses;
some two or three persons; some hour hence. Accord; adaptation; as, an
occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. To preserve from
danger or punishment; to forbear to punish, injure, or harm; to show mercy
to.; Consisting of a greater or less portion or sum; composed of a quantity or
number which is not stated; -- used to express an indefinite quantity or
number; as, some wine; some water; some persons.  Used also pronominally; as,
I have some. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or
quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to
spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. See Thee.
mines A weir.  See Weir. See productive.; Greatest in degree; as, he has the
most need of it. In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from;
belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications;
as: By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. To be a gay companion.. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in
composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental,
or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,
by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition
than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or
such, sometimes by that.; In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far
from; close to; along with; as, come and sit by me. For what reason; from what
cause. High in rank or position.; Against. Be as you are; stand still; stop;
that will do; right as you are; -- a word used esp. to cows; also used by
sailors. To a great degree or extent; greatly; abundantly; far; nearly.; At
the time of; -- often conveying some notion of cause or motive; as, on public
occasions, the officers appear in full dress or uniform; the shop is closed on
Sundays. As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or
refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be
understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers;
as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are good apples.
account; -- used Earlier; sooner than; until then. comparatives; as, A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. One who longs for
anything. The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the
word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of
which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb. To be
steadfast or constant in any course; to persevere; to abide; to endure; to
persist; to keep up or maintain a particular condition, course, or series of
actions; as, the army continued to advance. To inclose; to take in; to
harvest. To depart voluntarily from the path of duty prescribed by God to man;
to violate the divine law in any particular, by actual transgression or by the
neglect or nonobservance of its injunctions; to violate any known rule of
duty; -- often followed by against., A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. A root. Hard to do or to make; beset with
difficulty; attended with labor, trouble, or pains; not easy; arduous. The
neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he
and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs,
them). The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. In a very general way,
and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs
with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or
passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
To return to a good state; to amend or correct one's own character or habits;
as, a man of settled habits of vice will seldom reform.. Extent; limit; degree
of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. To get (with child.).; Complete measure; utmost extent; the highest
state or degree. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. A
mechanical agent; that from which useful mechanical energy is derived; as,
water power; steam power; hand power, etc.; Possessing legal power or
capacity; as, a man capable of making a contract, or a will. Denoting the
agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by.
producing Holding a chief position; elevated: lofty: eminent; distinguished;
foremost; principal; as, great men; the great seal; the great marshal, etc.
effects Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. any Race; genus; species; generic class; as, in mankind or humankind.;
One of the furs; a surface composed of patches which are supposed to represent
crutch heads; they are always alternately argent and azure, unless otherwise
specially mentioned.; A warrior of great force and courage.; Possessing the
quality of being effective; productive of, or powerful to produce, the effect
intended; as, an efficacious law.; Very severe; violent; as, intense pain or
anguish.; as, a Large; capacious; -- said of veins of ore. One of the piece
with which certain games, as chess or draughts, are played. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Fig.: A coarse,
brutal, filthy, or degraded fellow.; a Full of power; capable of producing
great effects of any kind; potent; mighty; efficacious; intense; as, a
powerful man or beast; a powerful engine; a powerful argument; a powerful
light; a powerful vessel. A compound machine by which any physical power is
applied to produce a given physical effect.; a Large; capacious; -- said of
veins of ore. argument; a Full of power; capable of producing great effects of
any kind; potent; mighty; efficacious; intense; as, a powerful man or beast; a
powerful engine; a powerful argument; a powerful light; a powerful vessel.
Easy to be endured or performed; not severe; not difficult; as, a light
affliction or task.; a Large; capacious; -- said of veins of ore. To put into
a vessel..; Possessing To impel, drive, wrest, extort, get, etc., by main
strength or violence; -- with a following adverb, as along, away, from, into,
through, out, etc.; stated precisely; -- of the meaning of words or concepts.
In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along with;
as, come and sit by me. To allow the force of; to value; to care for., The
quality of being efficient or producing an effect or effects; efficient power;
effectual agency., Ere; before; sooner than. Power efficiently and forcibly
exerted; vigorous or effectual operation; as, the energy of a magistrate.;
Large; capacious; -- said of veins of ore.; Possessing the quality of being
effective; productive of, or powerful to produce, the effect intended; as, an
efficacious law.; Making, or tending to make, an impression; having power to
impress; adapted to excite attention and feeling, to touch the sensibilities,
or affect the conscience; as, an impressive discourse; an impressive scene.;
Exerting or possessing influence or power; potent; efficacious; effective;
strong; having authority or ascendency; as, an influential man, station,
argument, etc..; Possession; goods; estate. By that; by how much; by so much;
on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in
sin, the more difficult it is to reform. A mechanical agent; that from which
useful mechanical energy is derived; as, water power; steam power; hand power,
etc. The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made
in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also,
motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To
call forth; to summon. A judgment of condemnation entered by a court having
jurisdiction; the act or process of finding guilty, or the state of being
found guilty of any crime by a legal tribunal. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. An act for the attainment
of an object; a step in the execution of a plan or purpose. See Thee.
Arbitrary disposal; power to control, dispose, or determine.; constraining;
Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing; putting an end to
debate or question; leading to, or involving, a conclusion or decision.;
Possessing force; characterized by force, efficiency, or energy; powerful;
efficacious; impressive; influential.; Full of power; capable of producing
great effects of any kind; potent; mighty; efficacious; intense; as, a
powerful man or beast; a powerful engine; a powerful argument; a powerful
light; a powerful vessel.; A word used to express negation, prohibition,
denial, or refusal. Smoothly; quietly; gently; gracefully; without &unr_;umult
or discord. reasisted.; as, a Possession; goods; estate. active Of or
pertaining to nature (as including all created existences); in accordance with
the laws of nature; also, of or relating to natural or material things, or to
the bodily structure, as opposed to things mental, moral, spiritual, or
imaginary; material; natural; as, armies and navies are the physical force of
a nation; the body is the physical part of man. The exercise of a faculty; the
employment of strength; the exercise of any kind of control; influence;
dominion; sway; command; government., Ere; before; sooner than. Large in
number; numerous; as, a great company, multitude, series, etc. Of or
pertaining to physic, or the art of medicine; medicinal; curative; healing;
also, cathartic; purgative. The agent exercising an ability to act; an
individual invested with authority; an institution, or government, which
exercises control; as, the great powers of Europe; hence, often, a superhuman
agent; a spirit; a divinity. In a very general way, and with innumerable
varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or
indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a
following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for,
but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks
were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a
substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to
our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. act; Possession; goods; estate. a
The agent exercising an ability to act; an individual invested with authority;
an institution, or government, which exercises control; as, the great powers
of Europe; hence, often, a superhuman agent; a spirit; a divinity. Denoting
the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by.
exerting Large in space; of much size; big; immense; enormous; expanded; --
opposed to small and little; as, a great house, ship, farm, plain, distance,
length. In respect to, or so as to affect, the entire body or mass; entirely;
all at once; completely; as, to carry away bodily. ldquoLeapt bodily
below.rdquo
 To stuff; to lard; to farce.; Possessing vigor; full of physical
or mental strength or active force; strong; lusty; robust; as, a vigorous
youth; a vigorous plant.. argument; Being in health; sound in body; not
ailing, diseased, or sick; healthy; as, a well man; the patient is perfectly
well. shown to be valid beyond a reasonable doubt; as, the established facts
in the case.; Not easily excited or disturbed; unchanging in purpose; fixed;
steady; constant; stable; unshaken; not easily changed in feelings or will;
strong; as, a firm believer; a firm friend; a firm adherent.; Shorn; shaven.
Smoothly; quietly; gently; gracefully; without &unr_;umult or discord.
overthrown Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. altered; as, a Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms
its preterit (imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past
participle (usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the
root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke, broken;
drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak. To supply with
customers.; a Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit
(imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past participle
(usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the root vowel);
as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke, broken; drink, drank,
drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak. Assent to a proposition or
affirmation, or the acceptance of a fact, opinion, or assertion as real or
true, without immediate personal knowledge; reliance upon word or testimony;
partial or full assurance without positive knowledge or absolute certainty;
persuasion; conviction; confidence; as, belief of a witness; the belief of our
senses.. reasons; Tending Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or
office filled. of or pertaining to education beyond the secondary level; as,
higher education; higher learning. prices; Growing; advancing to adult years
and to the state of active life; as, the rising generation.; as, a Pertaining
to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) by a variation
in the root vowel, and the past participle (usually) by the addition of -en
(with or without a change of the root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove,
striven; break, broke, broken; drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or
regular. See Weak. An opportunity for selling or buying anything; demand, as
shown by price offered or obtainable; as, to find a market for one's wares;
there is no market for woolen cloths in that region; India is a market for
English goods; there are none for sale on the market; the best price on the
market.. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined,
governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect
object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto
going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life
pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). A surrender. Clear to the vision; especially, clear to the
understanding, and satisfactory to the judgment; as, the figure or color of a
body is evident to the senses; the guilt of an offender can not always be made
evident. Ere; before; sooner than. Free from embarrassment; detention, etc.;
Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand.
To test, evince, ascertain, or verify, as the correctness of any operation or
result; thus, in subtraction, if the difference between two numbers, added to
the lesser number, makes a sum equal to the greater, the correctness of the
subtraction is proved.; Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to
twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. To show in a clear
manner; to prove beyond any reasonable doubt; to manifest; to make evident; to
bring to light; to evidence.; as, In a very general way, and with innumerable
varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or
indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a
following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for,
but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks
were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a
substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to
our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. That which makes evident or
manifest; that which furnishes, or tends to furnish, proof; any mode of proof;
the ground of belief or judgement; as, the evidence of our senses; evidence of
the truth or falsehood of a statement. a An effect produced or achieved;
anything done or that comes to pass; an act; an event; a circumstance., A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. By that; by
how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Exposure to any
legal penalty or forfeiture. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or
time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed
time. an One who offends; one who violates any law, divine or human; a
wrongdoer..; a A vertical passage in the stern into which an auxiliary screw
propeller may be drawn up out of water. shown to be valid beyond a reasonable
doubt; as, the established facts in the case.; Solid; -- opposed to fluid; as,
firm land.; Wot not; know not; knows not. Smoothly; quietly; gently;
gracefully; without &unr_;umult or discord. overthrown A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. altered; as, a Affecting
any sense powerfully; as, strong light, colors, etc.; a strong flavor of
onions; a strong scent. To have a custom.; a Having virtues of great efficacy;
or, having a particular quality in a great degree; as, a strong powder or
tincture; a strong decoction; strong tea or coffee. A persuasion of the truths
of religion; faith.. In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. Camber of a curved roofing tile. an
That which resembles or corresponds with something else; a precedent; a model.
Indicating that on place of or instead of which anything acts or serves, or
that to which a substitute, an equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is
offered or made; instead of, or place of.; In a very general way, and with
innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their
remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs
with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that
of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these
remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To exhibit as a
product or result; to produce; to show; as, the number of men, divided by the
number of ships, gives four hundred to each ship. a A judicial decision which
serves as a rule for future determinations in similar or analogous cases; an
authority to be followed in courts of justice; forms of proceeding to be
followed in similar cases. Indicating that in prevention of which, or through
fear of which, anything is done.; Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his
taste; she has a husband to her mind. To copy; to transcribe; to make an
attested copy or transcript of, under seal, as of a record.; In a very general
way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive
verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter
or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
To set forth as a known quantity or a known relation, or as a premise from
which to reason; -- used principally in the passive form given. an That which
is instant or urgent; motive. Denoting that by which a person or thing is
actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as,
they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity.; Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as,
they met us to the number of three hundred. A token; a sign; a symptom or
indication..; Possession; goods; estate. Endowed with extraordinary powers;
uncommonly gifted; able to accomplish vast results; strong; powerful; mighty;
noble; as, a great hero, scholar, genius, philosopher, etc. Strength or power
for war; hence, a body of land or naval combatants, with their appurtenances,
ready for action; -- an armament; troops; warlike array; -- often in the
plural; hence, a body of men prepared for action in other ways; as, the
laboring force of a plantation; the armed forces., Active strength or force of
body or mind; capacity for exertion, physically, intellectually, or morally;
force; energy., The exercise of a faculty; the employment of strength; the
exercise of any kind of control; influence; dominion; sway; command;
government., Ere; before; sooner than. See Thee. Likely; probably., as A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. To have in mind;
to purpose., A particular mind, especially a person of high intelligence; as,
he was a great intellect., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. any Power; prerogative or attribute of office.; as, a One
possessing in a high degree the distinctive qualities of manhood; one having
manly excellence of any kind. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space
or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the
appointed time. a Well established; firm; not easily overthrown or altered;
as, a strong custom; a strong belief. Opinion; judgment; belief., A memorial.,
The power or faculty of performing such operations (see 1); esp., when
unqualified, the faculty of judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely;
good sense; as, a man of judgment; a politician without judgment., Ere;
before; sooner than. The representative power; the power to reconstruct or
recombine the materials furnished by direct apprehension; the complex faculty
usually termed the plastic or creative power; the fancy.. The preposition to
primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a
place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without
arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To impart; to bestow; to convey;
as, to communicate a disease or a sensation; to communicate motion by means of
a crank. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the
meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a
thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street.
It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. The inarticulate
sounds by which animals inferior to man express their feelings or their
wants.; Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they
met us to the number of three hundred. A clear image or representation; an
expression; a plain declaration. Not out; within; inside. In, the preposition,
becomes an adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the representative
of an adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is; as,
he takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind); the
Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at the other (i.
e., in or into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at the bat); he
came in (i. e., into the house). Any system of symbols created for the purpose
of communicating ideas, emotions, commands, etc., between sentient agents...
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. act Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or
quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to
spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. Single;
unmarried. Originally, an interrogative pronoun, later, a relative pronoun
also; -- used always substantively, and either as singular or plural.  See the
Note under What, pron., 1.  As interrogative pronouns, who and whom ask the
question: What or which person or persons? Who and whom, as relative pronouns
(in the sense of that), are properly used of persons (corresponding to which,
as applied to things), but are sometimes, less properly and now rarely, used
of animals, plants, etc.  Who and whom, as compound relatives, are also used
especially of persons, meaning the person that; the persons that; the one
that; whosoever. looks; a To look with a sudden, rapid cast of the eye; to
snatch a momentary or hasty view..; appearing; as, Comparison; as, three is to
nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. To
come; to get. Having good qualities in a greater degree than another; as, a
better man; a better physician; a better house; a better air.; Comparison; as,
three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will
offend him. To increase; to be enhanced; to rise in value; as, the price of
cotton improves.. Rather than.; Under the cognizance or jurisdiction of.; In
the western United States, one who settles on government land before it is
legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives
to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who
does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an
unfair advantage. Then. See Then.. Wanting good qualities, whether physical or
moral; injurious, hurtful, inconvenient, offensive, painful, unfavorable, or
defective, either physically or morally; evil; vicious; wicked; -- the
opposite of good; as, a bad man; bad conduct; bad habits; bad soil; bad air;
bad health; a bad crop; bad news., Contrary to good, in a physical sense;
contrary or opposed to advantage, happiness, etc.; bad; evil; unfortunate;
disagreeable; unfavorable., Having or exhibiting bad moral qualities; morally
corrupt; wicked; wrong; vicious; as, evil conduct, thoughts, heart, words, and
the like., Ere; before; sooner than. Abounding in errors; not genuine or
correct; as, the text of the manuscript is corrupt., With reference to a whole
which includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family;
the first regiment in the army. a greater A 360th part of the circumference of
a circle, which part is taken as the principal unit of measure for arcs and
angles. The degree is divided into 60 minutes and the minute into 60 seconds.;
With a verb or participle. Bade. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. In an evil manner; not well; ill; badly;
unhappily; injuriously; unkindly.; Not so much; in a smaller or lower degree;
as, less bright or loud; less beautiful. Clever; skillful; dexterous; ready;
handy; -- followed especially by at.; In a specific manner., Not out; within;
inside. In, the preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its object,
leaving it as the representative of an adverbial phrase, the context
indicating what the omitted object is; as, he takes in the situation (i. e.,
he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in
at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in
(i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). poorer A
wish of health and happiness, as in pledging a person in a toast.; A root.
Having a strong dislike; disgusted; surfeited; -- with of; as, to be sick of
flattery.; -- used The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception
of either. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in
the last century; in all my life. a Perceptible through a bodily or material
organization; cognizable by the senses; external; as, the physical, opposed to
chemical, characters of a mineral. and A morality play. See Morality, 5.
Perception through the intellect; apprehension; recognition; understanding;
discernment; appreciation.. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account;
-- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. To express the particulars of; to set down in
detail or in gross; to represent fully in words; to narrate; to recite; as, to
state the facts of a case, one's opinion, etc. In a general sense, from, or
out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a
variety of applications; as: Since; inasmuch as. Experiencing pleasure. To
denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance,
etc.; hence, on the side of., Ere; before; sooner than. attracted With
direction to, in a moral sense; with respect or reference to; regarding;
concerning., About; near; more or less; -- used commonly with numerals, but
formerly also with a singular substantive of time or distance; as, a village
of some eighty houses; some two or three persons; some hour hence. Whatever
may be possessed or owned; a property; -- distinguished from person. Ere;
before; sooner than. The bodily form of a human being; body; outward
appearance; as, of comely person.; To send away., A leaning or tendency of the
mind, feelings, preferences, or will; propensity; a disposition more favorable
to one thing than to another; favor; desire; love.; Grief; regret.; To give or
afford pleasure to; to please; to gratify.; The act of Preferring, or the
state of being preferred; the setting of one thing before another; precedence;
higher estimation; predilection; choice; also, the power or opportunity of
choosing; as, to give him his preference.; -- Frequent; common; repeated. To
denote the accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes
equivalent to by. Indicating that in the character of or as being which
anything is regarded or treated; to be, or as being., In time past, either in
time immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old; heretofore.
To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or consequence. In a
very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.;
as, As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a
substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). The
third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. an amusement As a numeral, I
stands for 1, II for 2, etc. To possess, as something which appertains to, is
connected with, or affects, one. A refusal by use of the word no; a denial.
Looking; appearing; as, better or worse liking. See Like, to look. In the most
general sense, indicating that in consideration of, in view of, or with
reference to, which anything is done or takes place... Figuratively: Addition;
union; accumulation. To possess, as something which appertains to, is
connected with, or affects, one. one who places greatest value on activities
requiring exercise of the intelligence, such as study, complex forms of
knowledge, literature and aesthetic matters, reflection and philosophical
speculation; a member of the intelligentsia; as, intellectuals are often
apalled at the inanities that pass for entertainment on television.
apprehension; Addition; union; accumulation. To obtain knowledge of through
the senses; to receive impressions from by means of the bodily organs; to take
cognizance of the existence, character, or identity of, by means of the
senses; to see, hear, or feel; as, to perceive a distant ship; to perceive a
discord.; Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as,
they met us to the number of three hundred. To be convinced of the truth of;
to be fully assured of; as, to know things from information.; Accord;
adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. To
mean without expressing; to imply tacitly; to take for granted; to assume.;
Addition; union; accumulation. To see by the eye or by the understanding; to
perceive and recognize; as, to discern a difference.; -- Frequent; common;
repeated. followed Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition,
giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral
matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play,
by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. a A word employed to
connect a noun or a pronoun, in an adjectival or adverbial sense, with some
other word; a particle used with a noun or pronoun (in English always in the
objective case) to make a phrase limiting some other word; -- so called
because usually placed before the word with which it is phrased; as, a bridge
of iron; he comes from town; it is good for food; he escaped by running., as
From the beginning to the end of; to the end or conclusion of; as, through
life; through the year., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of
applications.. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a
husband to her mind. Someone who dresses in a business suit, as contrasted
with more informal attire;; Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition;
as, they engaged hand to hand. To give pleasure to; to excite agreeable
sensations or emotions in; to make glad; to gratify; to content; to satisfy.;
Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged
in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. To
exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality or as a product
of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain predicate, that is, as having
a certain attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or as identical with
what is specified, -- a word or words for the predicate being annexed; as, to
be happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero;
to be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of
existence; that is the man. agreeable Extent; limit; degree of comprehension;
inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three hundred.., Degree;
measure; proportion.; A restriction; a check; a curb; a hindrance.; A step,
stair, or staircase. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time;
from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. A
figure by which the name of a whole is put for a part, or that of a part for a
whole, or a definite number for an indefinite.; Something that is included. as
The more distant of two; as, the far side (called also off side) of a horse,
that is, the right side, or the one opposite to the rider when he mounts. as;
as, The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always
as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent
expressed. imp. amp p. p. of Mete, to measure. The persons speaking, regarded
as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. To give or apply a
number or numbers to; to assign the place of in a series by order of number;
to designate the place of by a number or numeral; as, to number the houses in
a street, or the apartments in a building. Denoting relation to place or time;
belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle
Ages; in the days of Herod. One more than two; two and one. A division of a
country in England, supposed to have originally contained a hundred families,
or freemen.. Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged
hand to hand. See Syndicalism, below. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. eyes Indicating that instead of which something
else controls in the performing of an action, or that in spite of which
anything is done, occurs, or is; hence, equivalent to notwithstanding, in
spite of; -- generally followed by all, aught, anything, etc. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. To have a purpose or
intention; to discourse. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated
or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of
their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. In view of
the fact (that); considering; taking into account (that); insmuch as; since;
because; -- followed by a dependent clause; as, he did well, seeing that he
was so young. A person or thing importance.; The preposition to primarily
indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or
thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival;
movement toward; -- opposed to from. See Syndicalism, below. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. eyes Near; at hand; in
state of preparation. an Opposed; presented in opposition; also, exposed.; In
a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
To make a remark; to comment; to make an observation{3}; -- generally with on
or upon. To denote association in respect of situation or environment; hence,
among; in the company of. See Thee. eyes To loiter. Maintenance; support;
provision; feed; as, the cattle have good keeping. The objective case of they.
See They. having a specified direction; often used in combination; as,
goal-directed.; -- To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the
firmament with its stars; a bride with a large fortune. Variegated;
diversified; not monotonous. prepositions, Frequent; common; repeated. With
reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; --
sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love;
to end in death; to put our trust in God. a Particular; peculiar; different
from others; extraordinary; uncommon. Ere; before; sooner than. Representing
by a figure, or by resemblance; typical; representative. Sound perception and
reasoning; correct judgment; good mental capacity; understanding; also, that
which is sound, true, or reasonable; rational meaning.. To be attentive; to
take care; to give heed; -- generally with to; as, to see to the house.
Phrases In court or tribunal of inferior jurisdiction; as, at the trial
below... A An Pertaining to one of the four elements, air, water, earth, fire.
A crumb or little piece of consecrated host.. As an adjective, To introduce a
clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or
predicate nominative of a verb. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. See Thee. Just
mentioned, or just about to be mentioned. Consisting of eulogy or of
invective. To use violence; to make violent effort; to strive; to endeavor. as
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it.
The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and
they., A thrust in fencing. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
followed Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the
meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a
thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street.
It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. a A word used as the
designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in
thought; a substantive.. marks an alternative; as, A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. A word used instead of a noun or
name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I,
thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. In a general sense, from, or out
from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a
variety of applications; as: By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. The interval between any tone and the tone
which is represented on the degree of the staff next above it. A human being
spoken of indefinitely; one; a man; as, any person present., To inclose; to
take in; to harvest. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. Giving a name; naming; designating; -- said of that case or
form of a noun which stands as the subject of a finite verb., Given by a
magistrate, as distinguished from being cast upon a party by the law., and Of
or pertaining to an object. To strip the skin from; as, to case a box.,
indicating See Thee. A human being spoken of indefinitely; one; a man; as, any
person present. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving
by small dots. persons addressed.  The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the
jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York. See Thee. Reputation;
distinction; as, a poet of note. Denoting relation to something that
comprehends or includes, that represents or designates, that furnishes a
cover, pretext, pretense, or the like; as, he betrayed him under the guise of
friendship; Morpheus is represented under the figure of a boy asleep. The
plural of the pronoun of the second person in the nominative case.. Privilege;
exemption; franchise; immunity enjoyed by prescription or by grant; as, the
liberties of the commercial cities of Europe.; The act of permitting or
allowing; formal consent; authorization; leave; license or liberty granted.;
allowance. Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as,
they met us to the number of three hundred. To have a misgiving. advice Ere;
before; sooner than. Result of consultation; advice; instruction.. A An
elementary particle. As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or
which, serving to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken of,
or alluded to, before, and may be either singular or plural. marks an
alternative; as, The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. The merrymaking of May Day. To advise; to counsel. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Contingency or
liability; possibility or probability. To set down, as legible characters; to
form the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any material by a suitable
instrument; as, to write the characters called letters; to write figures., --
In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish,
or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. The third person singular of
the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he
is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. The early part or springtime of life. To put or bring into
a form, state, or condition, especially in the phrases, to do death, to put to
death; to slay; to do away (often do away with), to put away; to remove; to do
on, to put on; to don; to do off, to take off, as dress; to doff; to do into,
to put into the form of; to translate or transform into, as a text. A single
person or thing. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or
impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of
their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. things at The
form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you. That which pleases; a
favor; a gratification., The buttocks; as, get up off your butt and get to
work; -- used as a euphemism, less objectionable than ass. Wot not; know not;
knows not. As well; not only; equally..  The neuter pronoun of the third
person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and
having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them). corresponds Addition;
union; accumulation. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two
things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one..  The pronoun of the
second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the
person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Liberty; permission;
allowance. A saddle horse. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used
of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. Hence, it
indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an
aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement,
or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. The
capital city of England. Ere; before; sooner than. Hence, it indicates motion,
course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything
capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as,
he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. A town in Berkshire,
England..  The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the
masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they,
their or theirs, them). Frequently; many times; not seldom. connects a A mode
of arranging the separate parts of a circuit by connecting them successively
end to end to form a single path for the current; -- opposed to parallel. The
parts so arranged are said to be in series. In a general sense, from, or out
from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a
variety of applications; as: words A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. propositions, presenting a Preserving or using
with care, as valuable; frugal; -- used with of; as, to be choice of time, or
of money. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. One of two; the
one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger
number, for any one.; as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely,
and usually followed by a relative pronoun. The fifth month of the year,
containing thirty-one days. To consider attentively; to examine closely; as,
to study the work of nature. In morals: The will of God as the rule for the
disposition and conduct of all responsible beings toward him and toward each
other; a rule of living, conformable to righteousness; the rule of action as
obligatory on the conscience or moral nature., A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A physician., Ere; before;
sooner than. A celestial being, inferior to the supreme God, but superior to
man., Ere; before; sooner than. Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense
used substantively. Contingency or liability; possibility or probability. To
make report of (a vessel or her cargo) at the customhouse; to submit a
statement of (imported goods), with the original invoices, to the proper
officer of the customs for estimating the duties. See Entry, 4. Expressing
penetration beyond the outside or surface, or access to the inside, or
contents; as, to look into a letter or book; to look into an apartment. A
company of men engaged in the same occupation; thus, booksellers and
publishers speak of the customs of the trade, and are collectively designated
as the trade.. See Thee. The act of making merry; conviviality; merriment;
jollity. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled;
also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own
will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. Desire or wish, as
in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. A specified time or period;
time, considered with reference to the existence or prominence of a person or
thing; age; time.. Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to
the music of a piano. A series of as many games as may be necessary to enable
one side to win six. If at the end of the tenth game the score is a tie, the
set is usually called a deuce set, and decided by an application of the rules
for playing off deuce in a game. See Deuce. To cause to go down; to make
descend; to put down; to overthrow, as in wrestling; hence, to subdue; to
bring down., as Capable of being discovered or understood by apparent marks or
indications; as, the thoughts of men are often legible in their countenances.
characters; Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled.
To derive by grammatical rules, as by adding the proper suffixes and affixes.
A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Dishonest
management, or artifice. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of
subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king;
a man of courage; the gate of heaven. That which is signified, whether by act
lanquage; signification; sense; import; as, the meaning of a hint.; Addition;
union; accumulation. To assign or address to; to commend to by a short
address; to dedicate informally; as, to inscribe an ode to a friend. Forward,
in progression; onward; -- usually with a verb of motion; as, move on; go on;
the beat goes on. any Of solid or weighty character; not insubstantial; of
consequence; not be dispensed with; important; significant. Near to, while
passing; hence, from one to the other side of; past; as, to go by a church. a
Capable of suiting; fitting; accordant; proper; becoming; agreeable; adapted;
as, ornaments suitable to one's station; language suitable for the subject.
One who, or that which, is made a means, or is caused to serve a purpose; a
medium, means, or agent; as, their army was primarily an instrument of
oppression.; as, Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a
husband to her mind. Hence, to compose or produce, as an author. See Thee.
characters called letters; Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency
toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being
regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a
trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. To frame or combine ideas, and
express them in written words; to play the author; to recite or relate in
books; to compose. figures., -- Apposition; connection; antithesis;
opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. To bring into notice, practice,
cultivation, or use; as, to introduce a new fashion, method, or plant., a The
faculty or capacity of the human mind by which it is distinguished from the
intelligence of the inferior animals; the higher as distinguished from the
lower cognitive faculties, sense, imagination, and memory, and in contrast to
the feelings and desires. Reason comprises conception, judgment, reasoning,
and the intuitional faculty. Specifically, it is the intuitional faculty, or
the faculty of first truths, as distinguished from the understanding, which is
called the discursive or ratiocinative faculty. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Abbreviation of Because.;
-- That comparative quantity by weight of an element which possesses the same
chemical value as other elements, as determined by actual experiment and
reference to the same standard. Specifically: (a) The comparative proportions
by which one element replaces another in any particular compound; thus, as
zinc replaces hydrogen in hydrochloric acid, their equivalents are 32.5 and 1.
(b) The combining proportion by weight of a substance, or the number
expressing this proportion, in any particular compound; as, the equivalents of
hydrogen and oxygen in water are respectively 1 and 8, and in hydric dioxide 1
and 16. Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they
met us to the number of three hundred. Indicating that on place of or instead
of which anything acts or serves, or that to which a substitute, an
equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is offered or made; instead of, or
place of. As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative
pronoun., With reference to physical surrounding, personal states, etc.,
abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live in
fear. As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative
pronoun., Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an act; the end or
final cause with reference to which anything is, acts, serves, or is done. See
Thee. Ratio; proportion. As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually
points out, or refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed
to be understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it
refers; as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are good
apples., In order that; that.. See Thee. Constituting or being one of three
equal parts into which anything is divided; as, the third part of a day. To
represent as a person; to personify; to impersonate. Separate or apart from
others; single; distinct. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a
name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Enduring; solid; firm;
substantial. A word which affirms or predicates something of some person or
thing; a part of speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action.
To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday., The specific
signification of in is situation or place with respect to surrounding,
environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying being,
resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or conditions of any
kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly or in
part. In its different applications, it approaches some of the meanings of,
and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and among. A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. The
indicative mood. Manner; style; mode; logical form; musical style; manner of
action or being. See Mode which is the preferable form)., To nominate for
support at a public school or other institution . Stretched tightly; strained
to stiffness; rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber.; as, The chemical symbol for
helium. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.; The chemical
symbol for helium. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a One
possessing in a high degree the distinctive qualities of manhood; one having
manly excellence of any kind..  To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes;
to watch; to regard attentively; to look after. To exist in a certain manner
or relation, -- whether as a reality or as a product of thought; to exist as
the subject of a certain predicate, that is, as having a certain attribute, or
as belonging to a certain sort, or as identical with what is specified, -- a
word or words for the predicate being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to
be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three
and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of existence; that is the
man.., By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it.
The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and
they. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation,
and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America;
the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. See Thee. Next to the first in value,
power, excellence, dignity, or rank; secondary; subordinate; inferior. One of
three relations or conditions (that of speaking, that of being spoken to, and
that of being spoken of) pertaining to a noun or a pronoun, and thence also to
the verb of which it may be the subject., With reference to a whole which
includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the
first regiment in the army. See Thee. Giving a name; naming; designating; --
said of that case or form of a noun which stands as the subject of a finite
verb., Removable, as distinguished from perpetual; -- said of an officer., and
Unbiased; unprejudiced; fair; uninfluenced by personal feelings or personal
interests; considering only the facts of a situation unrelated to the
observer; -- of judgments, opinions, evaluations, conclusions, reasoning
processes. A shallow tray divided into compartments or ldquoboxesrdquo for
holding type., indicating A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. A character or part, as in a play; a specific kind or
manifestation of individual character, whether in real life, or in literary or
dramatic representation; an assumed character. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. persons addressed.  To be
attentive; to take care; to give heed; -- generally with to; as, to see to the
house. See Thee. A musical sound; a tone; an utterance; a tune. Lower in
position, intensity, rank, or degree; subject; subordinate; -- generally in
composition with a noun, and written with or without the hyphen; as, an
undercurrent; undertone; underdose; under-garment; underofficer; undersheriff.
The plural of the pronoun of the second person in the nominative case.. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Soon; in good
season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early. Such portion of any quantity, as
when taken a certain number of times, will exactly make that quantity; as, 3
is a part of 12; -- the opposite of multiple.  Also, a line or other element
of a geometrical figure. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. The season of spring; springtide. Denoting nearness or
distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time. Something dear to one as one's
existence; a darling; -- used as a term of endearment.. Accompaniment; as, she
sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. To determine or
announce the place of at the finish. Usually, in horse racing only the first
three horses are placed officially.; Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince
was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions
exist to the prejudice of the state. A rustic; a clown; an awkward or uncouth
person.. A That which is thrown into a common fund; hence, an appointed or
accustomed duty. representing a A gold coin of the reign of James I., of the
value of twenty shillings., as 1, Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2,
etc.. Denoting Connection by consanguinity or affinity; kinship; relationship;
as, the relation of parents and children. Effect; end; consequence; as, the
prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent
factions exist to the prejudice of the state. To attribute; to ascribe; to set
down. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small
dots. To ascertain or record the time, duration, or rate of; as, to time the
speed of horses, or hours for workmen.; That which belongs to one; that which
pertains to one; hence, goods or effects. The preposition to primarily
indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or
thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival;
movement toward; -- opposed to from., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. switched on. With denotes or expresses
some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or
the like.; as, A man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and
corresponding to the present indefinite one or they. Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. Athens; See
Thee. The mass of community as distinguished from a special class; the
commonalty; the populace; the vulgar; the common crowd; as, nobles and people.
Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and
equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the
city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. the waist. Ages; A reeumlntrant angle; a nook
or corner. See Thee. days In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding
from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of
applications; as: Herod. Aside; as, to lay by; to put by. To introduce a
purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so,
in order, to the end, etc.; Out of the common path; aside; -- used in
composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental,
or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,
by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition
than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
By what name, designation, or title. High in rank or position.; Against.
Provided that; on condition that; in case that; if. Great in quantity; long in
duration; as, much rain has fallen; much time.; Adhering; not off; as in the
phrase, ldquoHe is neither on nor off,rdquo that is, he is not steady, he is
irresolute. To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded
by so or such, sometimes by that. account; -- used Open for; free of access
to; in the power of. comparatives; as, A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. One who longs for anything. The plural nominative
case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in
speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the
subject of an action expressed by a verb. To remain in a given place or
condition; to remain in connection with; to abide; to stay. To inclose; to
take in; to harvest. An embodiment of sin; a very wicked person., See Thee. To
make more; to increase. Hard to manage or to please; not easily wrought upon;
austere; stubborn; as, a difficult person. As a substance for any noun of the
neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. The third person singular
of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is;
he is a man.  See Be. In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To return to a good state; to amend
or correct one's own character or habits; as, a man of settled habits of vice
will seldom reform.. things at See Thee. To derive by grammatical rules, as by
adding the proper suffixes and affixes. Denoting the material of which
anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword
of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. See Thee. A possessive pronoun, or
a word in the possessive case. An inclosing frame; a casing; as, a door case;
a window case. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin,
source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble
blood. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A
movable; a chattel. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the
repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he,
she, it, we, ye, and they. The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye.. Extent; limit; degree of comprehension;
inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three hundred. To afford
a view of; as, his window gave the park. A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. afford What the will dictates or prefers as
gratifying or satisfying; hence, will; choice; wish; purpose. Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state.; The
preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the
direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or
tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To give
pleasure to; to excite agreeable sensations or emotions in; to make glad; to
gratify; to content; to satisfy.; Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar;
they danced to the music of a piano. To please; to give pleasure to; to
satisfy; to soothe; to indulge; as, to gratify the taste, the appetite, the
senses, the desires, the mind, etc.., A A restriction; a check; a curb; a
hindrance.; a Ready or intending to go; on the way toward; going; -- with to
or for, or with an adverb of motion; as, a ship is bound to Cadiz, or for
Cadiz.; a The mark set to bound a race, and to or around which the
constestants run, or from which they start to return to it again; the place at
which a race or a journey is to end.; See Thee. Last; final; conclusive; --
said of time; as, the extreme hour of life. To limit; to terminate; to fix the
furthest point of extension of; -- said of natural or of moral objects; to lie
along, or form, a boundary of; to inclose; to circumscribe; to restrain; to
confine.; A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
That which is left; a remnant; a fragment; a scrap; as, odds and ends.. p. p.
of Shear.; shaven. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. Any person, indefinitely; a person or body; as, what one would
have well done, one should do one's self. and See Thee. Left, as opposed to
right.; See Thee. One and one; twice one.; A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. Two members of opposite parties or opinion, as
in a parliamentary body, who mutually agree not to vote on a given question
(in order, for example, to allow the members to be absent during the vote
without affecting the outcome of the vote), or on issues of a party nature
during a specified time; as, there were two pairs on the final vote., Not
with; otherwise than with; in absence of, separation from, or destitution of;
not with use or employment of; independently of; exclusively of; with
omission; as, without labor; without damage. The act of excepting or
excluding; exclusion; restriction by taking out something which would
otherwise be included, as in a class, statement, rule. Denoting part of an
aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from
amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. Each of two; the one and the other; both;
-- formerly, also, each of any number...  As a Expressing, or apt to express,
much; displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her nature was demonstrative., In
an especial manner; chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree.
at See Thee. Enterprise. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of
subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king;
a man of courage; the gate of heaven. a To pass or pronounce judgment upon; to
doom; to condemn to punishment; to prescribe the punishment of., The rubbing
off of the point of the wheat grain in the first process of high milling. As
sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing
the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). To
introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently
preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. A compound relative or indefinite
pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the .
. . which, and the like; as, take which you will. The third person singular of
the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he
is a man.  See Be. about Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste;
she has a husband to her mind. To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to
have existence. Recurring at regular times; not occasional; as, stated
preaching; stated business hours., bearing the author's name; as, a named
source.  Opposite of anonymous., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. mentioned, Ere; before; sooner than. referring In
a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
As an adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is
followed by a noun. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and
adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an
individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it?
which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take;
which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. apparent
A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that
is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A hole
or excavation in the earth, in mining, from which run branches or galleries.
of Know.; as, I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its form from
the Phoelignician, through the Latin and the Greek. The Phoelignician letter
was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was nearly the same as
that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete. Etymologically I is most closely
related to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS.
cynn; E. thin, AS. thornynne; E. dominion, donjon, dungeon. Also used
figuratively; as, to saw the air. As a demonstrative, especially at the
beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named,
or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it
was John. The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the
indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. A proper name
of a man.. corresponds Accompaniment; as, A woman; a female; -- used
substantively. imp. of Sing. Addition; union; accumulation. Belonging or
pertaining to him; -- used as a pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as,
tell John his papers are ready; formerly used also for its, but this use is
now obsolete. A stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the
violin, but larger, and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver
wire, and three of catgut, -- played upon with the fingers.; The plural of he,
she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper,
and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. danced
Addition; union; accumulation. See Thee. Love of music; capacity of enjoying
music. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as,
within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. a Soft; --
a direction to the performer to execute a certain passage softly, and with
diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.). Every one of the two or more
individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately from the
rest. It is used either with or without a following noun; as, each of you or
each one of you. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from;
as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. One and
one; twice one.; See Thee. A single person or thing. and By that; by how much;
by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Left, as opposed to
right.; As well; not only; equally.; -- In time past, either in time
immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old; heretofore.,
also, Every; -- sometimes used interchangeably with every. Denoting possession
or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of
the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. any
To give or apply a number or numbers to; to assign the place of in a series by
order of number; to designate the place of by a number or numeral; as, to
number the houses in a street, or the apartments in a building...  See Thee. A
word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The
personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and
they. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. See Thee. One who
follows or attends another for his support and aid; a backer; an assistant;
specifically, one who acts as another's aid in a duel. A human being spoken of
indefinitely; one; a man; as, any person present., A reeumlntrant angle; a
nook or corner. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. The nominative case., The dative case. See Dative, a., 1., and Of or
pertaining to an object; contained in, or having the nature or position of, an
object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- an epithet applied to whatever is
exterior to the mind, or which is simply an object of thought or feeling, as
opposed to being related to thoughts of feelings, and opposed to subjective.
To propose hypothetical cases., indicating By that; by how much; by so much;
on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in
sin, the more difficult it is to reform. A living, self-conscious being, as
distinct from an animal or a thing; a moral agent; a human being; a man,
woman, or child. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving
by small dots. persons addressed.  To accompany in person; to escort; to wait
upon; as, to see one home; to see one aboard the cars. By that; by how much;
by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. A diplomatic missive or
written communication. Lower in position, intensity, rank, or degree; subject;
subordinate; -- generally in composition with a noun, and written with or
without the hyphen; as, an undercurrent; undertone; underdose; under-garment;
underofficer; undersheriff. The plural of the pronoun of the second person in
the nominative case.. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; --
used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. flowers During; in the course of. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A thorny shrub or tree
(the Crataegus oxyacantha), having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small,
roselike, fragrant flowers, and a fruit called haw.  It is much used in Europe
for hedges, and for standards in gardens.  The American hawthorn is Crataegus
cordata, which has the leaves but little lobed.; -- Provided that; on
condition that; in case that; if. called Out of the neighborhood of; lessening
or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; --
used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. The possessive case
of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. Hour of
travail, delivery, or parturition. Denoting that from which anything proceeds;
indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of
kings; he is of noble blood. the process of budding and unfolding of
blossoms.; also, See Thee. A thorny shrub or tree (the Crataegus oxyacantha),
having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small, roselike, fragrant flowers, and a
fruit called haw.  It is much used in Europe for hedges, and for standards in
gardens.  The American hawthorn is Crataegus cordata, which has the leaves but
little lobed.. A An inroad; an invasion; a raid. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. avenue To do the work of an
edged tool; to serve in dividing or gashing; as, a knife cuts well. With
privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin;
as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. a The
substance of trees and the like; the hard fibrous substance which composes the
body of a tree and its branches, and which is covered by the bark; timber., A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. By means of;
by the agency of. grounds, Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion
as far as; as, they met us to the number of three hundred. To exist actually,
or in the world of fact; to have existence. used as a Position in the heavens,
as of a heavenly body; -- usually defined by its right ascension and
declination, or by its latitude and longitude. Indicating that on place of or
instead of which anything acts or serves, or that to which a substitute, an
equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is offered or made; instead of, or
place of. A district in charge of an excise officer.; a A festival
procession.. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things,
but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. precedes The sum of one and
one; the number next greater than one, and next less than three; two units or
objects., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. That which is in addition; something other and further; an
additional or greater amount., To give a common action, movement, or condition
to; to regulate and combine so as to produce harmonious action; to adjust; to
harmonize; as, to coordinate muscular movements. words A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. phrases, and The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Serving to introduce something else;
leading to the main subject or business; preliminary; prefatory; as,
introductory proceedings; an introductory discourse. Effect; end; consequence;
as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost;
violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. an alternative. As a
substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it
home. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. The antecedent of a
pronoun. Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music
of a piano. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots.. Apposition; the transfer of a passenger from one vehicle to
another to continue a journey; as, the connection was made in Copenhagen; --
most commonly of scheduled transportation on common carriers.; antithesis; The
situation of a heavenly body with respect to another when in the part of the
heavens directly opposite to it; especially, the position of a planet or
satellite when its longitude differs from that of the sun 180deg; -- signified
by the symbol &unr_;; as, &unr_; &jupiter_; &sun_;, opposition of Jupiter to
the sun.; as, The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively,
but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an
antecedent expressed. Involved; esp., involved in a hostile encounter; as, the
engaged ships continued the fight. Side; part; direction, either right or
left. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state
or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a
tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to
wealth and honor. Power of performance; means of execution; ability; skill;
dexterity.. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Anything which can be used to increase one's power or influence. The
collective body of citizens, or inhabitants of a city. Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. England.
Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or brass; having the
hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is between
the orange and the green. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. A yellow color, like that of the metal; as, a flower
tipped with gold. Shade or variety of character; kind; species., --
represented With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in
the last century; in all my life. The act or the art of representing any
object by means of lines and shades; especially, such a representation when in
one color, or in tints used not to represent the colors of natural objects,
but for effect only, and produced with hard material such as pencil, chalk,
etc.; delineation; also, the figure or representation drawn. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The act or art of
producing upon hard material incised or raised patterns, characters, lines,
and the like; especially, the art of producing such lines, etc., in the
surface of metal plates or blocks of wood. Engraving is used for the
decoration of the surface itself; also, for producing an original, from which
a pattern or design may be printed on paper. On; along; in traversing. Compare
5. Not prolonged in duration; not extended in time; short; as, after a small
space. dots. A peculiar species of execution upon debts due to the crown,
under which the lands and goods of the debtor may be seized to secure
payment.; That which terminates a period of time; hence, the period itself;
the full time or extent.; A division, space, or interval, marked on a
mathematical or other instrument, as on a thermometer. Denoting the material
of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of
gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. The complement of
attributes which make up the notion signified by a general term.; The act of
including, or the state of being included; limitation; restriction; as, the
lines of inclusion of his policy. as To a great distance in time from any
point; remotely; as, he pushed his researches far into antiquity. as; as, The
plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a
pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent
expressed. p. p. of Mete, to dream. The persons speaking, regarded as an
object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. In a very general way,
and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs
with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or
passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. That which is regulated by count; poetic measure, as divisions of time
or number of syllables; hence, poetry, verse; -- chiefly used in the plural.
Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source,
descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. A
symbol representing three units, as 3 or iii. A division of a country in
England, supposed to have originally contained a hundred families, or
freemen.. A The body of inhabitants resident in a town; as, the town voted to
send two representatives to the legislature; the town voted to lay a tax for
repairing the highways. A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. Berkshire,
England..  See Thee. To render incapable of sexual reproduction; to remove or
alter the sexual organs so as to make infertile; to alter; to fix; to desex;
-- in male animals, to castrate; in female animals, to spay. A word used
instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal
pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they.
Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as,
the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate
of heaven. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
The third tone of the scale; the mediant. Among Trinitarians, one of the three
subdivisions of the Godhead (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an
hypostasis., Answering; conformable; agreeing; suiting; as, corresponding
numbers. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a
state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit
to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising
to wealth and honor. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. Having the qualities of a man; suitable to, or characteristic
of, a man; virile; not feminine or effeminate; strong; robust. A word used
instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal
pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. Man; a
male; any male person; -- in this sense used substantively. and See Thee.
Having the qualities of a woman; becoming or appropriate to the female sex;
as, in a good sense, modest, graceful, affectionate, confiding; or, in a bad
sense, weak, nerveless, timid, pleasure-loving, effeminate. This or that
female; the woman understood or referred to; the animal of the female sex, or
object personified as feminine, which was spoken of., and Possession; goods;
estate. See Thee. Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or the like; not
differing in character or in the quality or qualities compared; corresponding;
not discordant; similar; like. Relating to, or containing, more than one;
designating two or more; as, a plural word. (The plural of he, she, or it.
They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes
refers to persons without an antecedent expressed., The possessive case of the
personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. theirs, The objective
case of they. See They.). Addicted to any course of conduct; inclined to
indulge in any practice; habitual; persistent.; Often met with; usual;
frequent; customary.; repeated. connects a A A portion of anything taken
separately; a fragment of a whole; a part. Denoting the material of which
anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword
of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. In a rough manner; rudely;
roughly. diamonds Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or
impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of
their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. assorted
qualities. Denoting Quarter; region; district; -- usually in the plural.
During; in the course of. an aggregate A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Complete; entire; not defective or imperfect; not
broken or fractured; unimpaired; uninjured; integral; as, a whole orange; the
egg is whole; the vessel is whole.; That which belongs to one; that which
pertains to one; hence, goods or effects. Character; condition of being;
purpose subserved or office filled. a To amount; to equal in number; to
contain; to consist of; as, the army numbers fifty thousand. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The extent or
extension of a general conception, that is, the number of species or
individuals to which it may be applied; also, its content or comprehension,
that is, the number of its constituent qualities, attributes, or relations.
mentioned; In its original and strict sense, out means from the interior of
something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in a position or
relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to in or into. The
something may be expressed after of, from, etc. (see Out of, below); or, if
not expressed, it is implied; as, he is out; or, he is out of the house,
office, business, etc.; he came out; or, he came out from the ship, meeting,
sect, party, etc. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject
to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of
courage; the gate of heaven.; Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. amongst; as,
Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. As an adjective, this has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun,
but is followed by a noun; as, this book; this way to town. A small degree or
scale; miniature. Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used
substantively. See Have. Not much; a little; moderate; as, the censure was to
some extent just. Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office
filled. The right of bowling again at a full set of pins, after having knocked
all the pins down in less than three bowls. If all the pins are knocked down
in one bowl it is a double spare; in two bowls, a single spare.  For the
meaning in  modern bowling, see sense 6.; About; near; more or less; -- used
commonly with numerals, but formerly also with a singular substantive of time
or distance; as, a village of some eighty houses; some two or three persons;
some hour hence. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or
appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent
of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. mines A weir.  See Weir. See
productive.; In the greatest or highest degree. Denoting reference to a thing;
about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they
talked of many things. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. A companion or companions.. words Before; sooner than.; In
front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand before the fire; before
the house.; In the western United States, one who settles on government land
before it is legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that
the law gives to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement;
hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting
in order to gain an unfair advantage. A particle expressing comparison, used
after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as
more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the
object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object
compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some
grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence,
usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should
want.. propositions, presenting a Act Denoting part of an aggregate or whole;
belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this
little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the
company. choosing; A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. Of or pertaining to the will; subject to, or regulated by, the will;
as, the voluntary motions of an animal, such as the movements of the leg or
arm (in distinction from involuntary motions, such as the movements of the
heart); the voluntary muscle fibers, which are the agents in voluntary motion.
act Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity
mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some
of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. selecting Ere; before;
sooner than. Designed or employed to separate. Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. The sum of one and
one; the number next greater than one, and next less than three; two units or
objects. Ere; before; sooner than. A root. things In an elliptical sentence to
introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise,
indignation, or the like. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. preferred; A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. That which is determined upon; result
of deliberation; purpose; conclusion formed; fixed resolution. Denoting
possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the
apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of
heaven. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
Memory; remembrance; recollection; as, to have or keep in mind, to call to
mind, to put in mind, etc. With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a
holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the
seisin of her husband. preferring Pointing out a contrast, or denoting a
particular thing or person different from some other specified; -- used as a
correlative adjective, with or without the. In Scandinavian countries, a
legislative or judicial assembly; -- used, esp. in composition, in titles of
such bodies. See Legislature, Norway. Character; condition of being; purpose
subserved or office filled. another; The choice, made by a party, of two
alternatives, by taking one of which, the chooser is excluded from the other..
Denoting Reception; currency. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. Single; unmarried.
Stately. Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is
ten to one that you will offend him. another; Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.. Every one of the
two or more individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately
from the rest. It is used either with or without a following noun; as, each of
you or each one of you. During; in the course of. A symbol representing two
units, as 2, II., or ii.; A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. Closely bound together; undivided; united; constituting a
whole. and See Thee. Either; -- used with other or or for its correlative (as
either . . . or are now used).; As well; not only; equally.; -- In time past,
either in time immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old;
heretofore., also, Every; -- sometimes used interchangeably with every.
Denoting passage from one state to another; from. any To reckon as one of a
collection or multitude..; as, A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. An adult male person; a grown-up male person, as
distinguished from a woman or a child. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. A plant bearing only staminate flowers.
Lifetime; mortal existence. (Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing
or engraving by small dots. Sight; show; appearance; aspect. personified The
preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the
direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or
tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. A relative
pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes
with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a
following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to
something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was
formerly used of persons. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account;
-- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. Having the inflections of, or construed with, words
pertaining especially to male beings, as distinguished from feminine and
neuter. See Gender. A classification of nouns, primarily according to sex; and
secondarily according to some fancied or imputed quality associated with sex.
The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. assigned), Beforehand;
antecedently; as, a plan previously formed. designated; a A word used instead
of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in
English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. Denoting that from
which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as,
he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. Belonging to males; appropriated to, or
used by, males. To beget; to engender., usually referring Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. a specified
That in which any quality, attribute, or relation, whether spiritual or
material, inheres, or to which any of these appertain; substance; substratum.
already Shown; denoted; registered; measured.. See Thee. The interval of three
tones and a semitone, embracing five diatonic degrees of the scale; the
dominant of any key. One of the twelve portions into which the year is
divided; the twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a
synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name.  In popular use, a period
of four weeks is often called a month. Denoting that from which anything
proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a
race of kings; he is of noble blood. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. The time in which any planet completes a
revolution about the sun; as, the year of Jupiter or of Saturn., containing
thirty-one days. Addition; union; accumulation. To transfix; to pierce. See
Thee. Opinion; judgment; belief. In a close manner. On; -- used in all the
senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable. a That which is placed
under the authority, dominion, control, or influence of something else.; The
preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the
direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or
tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To inhabit. On;
-- used in all the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable.
anything With reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled
in Italy; castles in the air. Meditation; serious consideration.; Apposition;
connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. A gap or
hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through which a wild animal is
accustomed to pass; a muset.; Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they
danced to the music of a piano. To weigh.. The state of being tried or
tempted; exposure to suffering that tests strength, patience, faith, or the
like; affliction or temptation that exercises and proves the graces or virtues
of men. Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the procession has gone
by; a bird flew by. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. the first five books of the Old Testament, also called The Law and
Torah. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also,
the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no
body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. See Thee. The lap of the
strakes in a clinker-built boat; the lap of plates in an iron vessel; --
called also landing.; Judicious. The legal means to recover a right, or to
obtain redress for a wrong.; The act or process of litigating; a suit at law;
a judicial contest.; as, Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they
danced to the music of a piano. To move from the person speaking, or from the
point whence the action is contemplated; to pass away; to leave; to depart; --
in opposition to stay and come. Trial by the laws of the land; judicial
remedy; litigation; as, to go law.., Before; sooner than.; In time past;
previously; already.; In the western United States, one who settles on
government land before it is legally open to settlement in order to gain the
prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is opened to
settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or anticipates another
in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage. Then. See Then.. Any That
which underlies all outward manifestations; substratum; the permanent subject
or cause of phenomena, whether material or spiritual; that in which properties
inhere; that which is real, in distinction from that which is apparent; the
abiding part of any existence, in distinction from any accident; that which
constitutes anything what it is; real or existing essence. administered With
privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin;
as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. See Thee.
The act or manner of treating; management; manipulation; handling; usage; as,
unkind treatment; medical treatment. During; in the course of. Lack of ease;
uneasiness; trouble; vexation; disquiet.; a Affording a remedy; intended for a
remedy, or for the removal or abatement of an evil; as, remedial treatment.
agent; a The act or process of medicating.; a Any animal, vegetable, or
mineral substance used in the composition of medicines.; a Of or pertaining to
the knowledge or art of pharmacy, or to the art of preparing medicines
according to the rules or formulas of pharmacy; as, pharmaceutical
preparations.; a Anything used for healing diseases or wounds, especially a
medicine; a medication; a healing application.; a That which relieves or cures
a disease; any medicine or application which puts an end to disease and
restores health; -- with for; as, a remedy for the gout.; The art of healing
diseases; the science of medicine; the theory or practice of medicine; -- an
archaic term, superseded by medicine.., A A crumb or little piece of
consecrated host. In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence
expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. marks an
alternative; as, The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of
blossoming; also, the hawthorn. imp. amp p. p. of Read, v. t. amp i. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The flowers
of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of blossoming; also, the
hawthorn. To impress durably; to imprint; to engrave; as, truth written on the
heart., -- As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or which, serving
to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken of, or alluded to,
before, and may be either singular or plural. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. Liberty; permission; allowance. To perform work upon, about, for, or
at, by way of caring for, looking after, preparing, cleaning, keeping in
order, or the like. A single person or thing. Denoting reference to a thing;
about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they
talked of many things. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; --
used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. things at The form of the possessive case of the
personal pronoun you. The gratification of the senses or of the mind;
agreeable sensations or emotions; the excitement, relish, or happiness
produced by the expectation or the enjoyment of something good, delightful, or
satisfying; -- opposed to pain, sorrow, etc., The thickest and stoutest part
of tanned oxhides, used for soles of boots, harness, trunks. Wot not; know
not; knows not. The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of
either..  As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a
substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk).
corresponds Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled.
One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but
sometimes of a larger number, for any one..  The pronoun of the second person,
in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or
persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The fifth month of the year,
containing thirty-one days. To sit on, so as to be carried; as, to ride a
horse; to ride a bicycle. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used
of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. Character;
condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled. The capital city of
England. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write,
-- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade.
Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us
to the number of three hundred. A town in Berkshire, England..  As an
indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used
humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). Frequently; many times;
not seldom. connects a An indefinite number of terms succeeding one another,
each of which is derived from one or more of the preceding by a fixed law,
called the law of the series; as, an arithmetical series; a geometrical
series. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. words A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. propositions, presenting a Selected with care, and due attention to
preference; deliberately chosen. Denoting nearness or distance, either in
space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the
appointed time. Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases,
and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or.; as, The
chemical symbol for helium. The early part or springtime of life. To apply the
mind to books or learning. Trial by the laws of the land; judicial remedy;
litigation; as, to go law., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. A physician., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. A pretended deity of pagans; a false god., A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The man or
male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned),
previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to
a specified subject already indicated. Desire or wish, as in prayer,
imprecation, benediction, and the like. To engage in; to become occupied with;
as, to enter the legal profession, the book trade, etc. To the inside of;
within. It is used in a variety of applications. To have dealings; to be
concerned or associated; -- usually followed by with.. See Thee. In the United
States, one of the commonwealths, or bodies politic, the people of which make
up the body of the nation, and which, under the national constitution, stand
in certain specified relations with the national government, and are invested,
as commonwealths, with full power in their several spheres over all matters
not expressly inhibited. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to
a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he
had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company.
Existing. To foresee or foreknow; to detect; to anticipate; to conjecture.;
See Thee. The personified sum and order of causes and effects; the powers
which produce existing phenomena, whether in the total or in detail; the
agencies which carry on the processes of creation or of being; -- often
conceived of as a single and separate entity, embodying the total of all
finite agencies and forces as disconnected from a creating or ordering
intelligence; as, produced by nature; the forces of nature. A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The predominant qualities
or virtues of a plant or drug, extracted and refined from grosser matter; or,
more strictly, the solution in spirits of wine of a volatile or essential oil;
as, the essence of mint, and the like. Denoting that from which anything
proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a
race of kings; he is of noble blood. A being conceived of as possessing
supernatural power, and to be propitiated by sacrifice, worship, etc.; a
divinity; a deity; an object of worship; an idol.; The collection of
attributes which make up the nature of a god; divinity; godhead; as, the deity
of the Supreme Being is seen in his works.; The Deity; God; the Supreme
Being.., Rather than.; In front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand
before the fire; before the house.; In the western United States, one who
settles on government land before it is legally open to settlement in order to
gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is
opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or
anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage. A particle
expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express
comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It
is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes,
however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then
considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is
expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer
than that you should want.. See Thee. A substance used for producing a
chemical effect; a reagent. An abbreviation standing for the name of an
element and consisting of the initial letter of the Latin or New Latin name,
or sometimes of the initial letter with a following one; as, C for carbon, Na
for sodium (Natrium), Fe for iron (Ferrum), Sn for tin (Stannum), Sb for
antimony (Stibium), etc.  See the list of names and symbols under Element.
Because; by reason that; for that; indicating, in Old English, the reason of
anything. An inert, monoatomic, gaseous element occurring in the atmosphere of
the sun and stars, and in small quantities in the earth's atmosphere, in
several minerals and in certain mineral waters. It is obtained from natural
gas in industrial quantities.  Symbol, He; atomic number 2; at. wt., 4.0026
(C=12.011). Helium was first detected spectroscopically in the sun by Lockyer
in 1868; it was first prepared by Ramsay in 1895. Helium has a density of 1.98
compared with hydrogen, and is more difficult to liquefy than the latter.
Chemically, it is an inert noble gas, belonging to the argon group, and cannot
be made to form compounds. The helium nucleus is the charged particle which
constitutes alpha rays, and helium is therefore formed as a decomposition
product of certain radioactive substances such as radium.  The normal helium
nucleus has two protons and two neutrons, but an isotope with only one neutron
is also observed in atmospheric helium at an abundance of 0.013 %.  Liquid
helium has a boiling point of -268.9deg C at atmospheric pressure, and is used
for maintaining very low temperatures, both in laboratory experimentation and
in commercial applications to maintain superconductivity in low-temperature
superconducting devices.  Gaseous helium at normal temperatures is used for
buoyancy in blimps, dirigibles, and high-altitude balloons, and also for
amusement in party balloons.. A An unmarried woman; a girl or woman who has
not experienced sexual intercourse; a virgin; a maid.. Addition; union;
accumulation. To complete a movement toward a place; to arrive. A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Power of
going or doing; energy; vitality; perseverance; push; as, there is no go in
him. Denoting inclusion; as, put these ideas into other words.; Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. Fig.: a
thrust; a sally of wit. Indicating insertion; as, to infuse more spirit or
animation into a composition. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. That which is within; the internal or inner part
of a thing; the inside. Denoting passage from one state to another; from.;
Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand.
To be suffered to go on; to be tolerated; hence, to continue; to live along.
In the house; in doors; as, the master is within. By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The part of a target which is
beyond the circles surrounding the bull's-eye. To copulate with (a female); to
serve; as, a horse covers a mare; -- said of the male. Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A light boat the frame
of which is covered with thin wood or with paper; as, a racing shell. Denoting
identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to
the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome;
the Island of Cuba.; In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To enter into; to make way into the
interior of; to effect an entrance into; to pierce; as, light penetrates
darkness.; Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is
ten to one that you will offend him. To thrust into, penetrate, or transfix,
with a pointed instrument.; as, In a very general way, and with innumerable
varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or
indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a
following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for,
but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks
were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a
substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to
our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To initiate; to introduce
favorably. a To admit to residence; to harbor., a To make into a closet for a
secret interview., a The rock through which a vein runs., a Passage; means of
approach or access., etc.; See Thee. A large stream of water flowing in a bed
or channel and emptying into the ocean, a sea, a lake, or another stream; a
stream larger than a rivulet or brook. enters By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. An inland body of water, esp. if
large or if salt or brackish; as, the Caspian Sea; the Sea of Aral; sometimes,
a small fresh-water lake; as, the Sea of Galilee.. Indicating The condition or
mode of being inserted or attached; as, the insertion of stamens in a calyx.;
as, Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to
her mind. To make an infusion with, as an ingredient; to tincture; to
saturate. Greater in quality, amount, degree, quality, and the like; with the
singular. The intelligent, immaterial and immortal part of man; the soul, in
distinction from the body in which it resides; the agent or subject of vital
and spiritual functions, whether spiritual or material. A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. animation Denoting
inclusion; as, put these ideas into other words. a The invention or
combination of the parts of any literary work or discourse, or of a work of
art; as, the composition of a poem or a piece of music.. To repair; to extend;
to increase; to strengthen; to equip.. In a general sense, from, or out from;
proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety
of applications; as: To set the foot; to step... A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. A word employed to connect a noun or a
pronoun, in an adjectival or adverbial sense, with some other word; a particle
used with a noun or pronoun (in English always in the objective case) to make
a phrase limiting some other word; -- so called because usually placed before
the word with which it is phrased; as, a bridge of iron; he comes from town;
it is good for food; he escaped by running. Apposition; connection;
antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. In a primary manner; in
the first place; in the first place; in the first intention; originally.
indicates approach and arrival, To direct or invite by a motion, as of the
hand or head; as, to motion one to a seat. imp. amp p. p. of Make. With
reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last century;
in all my life. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary vertical
axis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given when the plane
of sight passes through the object. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used
with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as,
the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. a A position
which is occupied and held; a dwelling; a mansion; a village, town, or city; a
fortified town or post; a stronghold; a region or country. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A portion or
part; something. and attaining The neuter pronoun of the third person,
corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the
same plural (they, their or theirs, them)., access; and also, Change in the
relative position of the parts of anything; action of a machine with respect
to the relative movement of its parts. A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Direction or course toward any place, object,
effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient influence to bring about an
effect or result. On or art the outside; not on the inside; not within;
outwardly; externally. arrival; A more or less organized effort by many people
to achieve some goal, especially a social or artistic goal; as, the women's
liberation movement; the progressive movement in architecture. Near; about;
approaching to.; -- characterized by active opposition; as, two bitterly
opposing schools of thought. Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition;
as, they engaged hand to hand. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.. See Thee. longest
A literal factor, as numbered in characterizing a term. The term dimensions
forms with the cardinal numbers a phrase equivalent to degree with the
ordinal; thus, a2b2c is a term of five dimensions, or of the fifth degree.; A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. not to be
surpassed. A process of execution by which the lands and goods of a debtor are
valued and delivered to the creditor.; -- With reference to character, reach,
scope, or influence considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in
one's favor. See Thee. To group notes into phrases; as, he phrases well. See
Phrase, n., 4., See Thee. Having a supply of stocks or goods; prepared for, or
depending for a profit upon, advance in prices; as, long of cotton.  Hence,
the phrases: to be, or go, long of the market, to be on the long side of the
market, to hold products or securities for a rise in price, esp. when bought
on a margin.  Contrasted to short. and A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. Breaking or crumbling readily in the mouth;
crisp; as, short pastry. Denoting the material of which anything is composed,
or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of
mist; a cup of water. As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of
affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick
man?, As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or
refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be
understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers;
as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are good apples. The
third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. To bring together into one whole; to
collect into one amount; to cast up, as a column of figures; to ascertain the
totality of; -- usually with up. and Body; matter; material of which a thing
is made; hence, substantiality; solidity; firmness; as, the substance of which
a garment is made; some textile fabrics have little substance. Denoting part
of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of;
from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. The neuter pronoun of the third person,
corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the
same plural (they, their or theirs, them).. Single in kind; the same; a
common. One; any; one. takes, A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to
for that, in that, for the reason that, because. A interrogative pronoun, used
both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to
ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class;
as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which
route he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under
What, pron., 1. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
Before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly
in legal style. in consequence of, or following; as, on the ratification of
the treaty, the armies were disbanded; start on the count of three., A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. affrimative The
right or left part of the wall or trunk of the body; as, a pain in the side.;
To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently
preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. A interrogative pronoun, used both
substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask
for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as,
which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route
he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What,
pron., 1. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
Before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly
in legal style. With reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in
difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. A kind act or office; kindness
done or granted; benevolence shown by word or deed; an act of grace or good
will, as distinct from justice or remuneration. Denoting relation to place or
time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the
Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. Consisting of a greater or less portion or
sum; composed of a quantity or number which is not stated; -- used to express
an indefinite quantity or number; as, some wine; some water; some persons. 
Used also pronominally; as, I have some. Closely bound together; undivided;
united; constituting a whole. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. A part; a portion, more or less; an indefinite
quantity or degree; a little.; -- By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. antithesis Denoting nearness or distance,
either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour
of the appointed time. against, and Usually; generally; ordinarily;
frequently; for the most part; as, confirmed habits commonly continue through
life. used With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding,
possession, or seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of
her husband. the scheduled arrival of one vehicle and departure of a second,
sufficiently close in time and place to allow the departing vehicle serve as a
means of continuing a journey begun or continued in the first vehicle; as, we
can get a connection at Newark to continue on to Paris; -- most commonly used
of airplanes, trains, and buses arriving and departing at the same terminal.
To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or consequence. As a
demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that
which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which
apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John..; Style of writing or printing;
handwriting; the peculiar form of letters used by a particular person or
people; as, an inscription in the Runic character.; Temperament; disposition;
character. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as,
to boast of one's achievements; they talked of many things. Lifetime; mortal
existence.; To have a purpose or intention; to discourse. subserved Ere;
before; sooner than. That which a person does, either voluntarily or by
appointment, for, or with reference to, others; customary duty, or a duty that
arises from the relations of man to man; as, kind offices, pious offices.
containing as much or as many as is possible or normal; as, filled to
overflowing.  Opposite of empty.. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his
taste; she has a husband to her mind. To hold in possession or control; to
own; as, he has a farm. a An expressed wish; a request; petition. A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. prolonged
unfulfilled desire or need.; As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the
use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting
it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go,
i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to
lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to
the infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as
where the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e.,
I love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). To a great extent in space; as, a long drawn out line.; Hence,
it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition,
an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency,
movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and
honor. To linger in expectation or with desire.. Indicating To introduce a
consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or such, sometimes
by that. With reference to physical surrounding, personal states, etc.,
abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live in
fear. A letter or epistle; -- so called in civility or compliment; as, your
favor of yesterday is received. Denoting relation to place or time; belonging
to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in
the days of Herod. A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent
noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied
in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a
reference, however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all
numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons., A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. With reference to physical
surrounding, personal states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the
room is in darkness; to live in fear. promoting A interrogative pronoun, used
both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to
ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class;
as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which
route he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under
What, pron., 1., anything The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.,
Ere; before; sooner than. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
Performed; executed; finished.; From this time; in the future; as, a week
hence., With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the
last century; in all my life. Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest;
profit; support; defense; vindication. Denoting that by which a person or
thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due
to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity.; With reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he
traveled in Italy; castles in the air. Kind regard; propitious aspect;
countenance; friendly disposition; kindness; good will. Denoting part of an
aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from
amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company.; In reference to; about; concerning; as, to
think on it; to meditate on it. See Thee. Hence, indirect; oblique;
collateral; incidental; as, a side issue; a side view or remark. Denoting that
by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a
purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move
of itself; he did it of necessity.; -- characterized by active opposition; as,
two bitterly opposing schools of thought. In a very general way, and with
innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their
remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs
with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that
of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these
remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. against. With
privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin;
as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. an
Serious; important. Carriage; behavior; deportment; also, becoming behavior;
well-bred carriage and address; as, mind your manners!..; Impression left on
the mind; sensation produced.; One of the yarns of the worsted warp in a
Brussels carpet.; A proposition collected from the agreement of other previous
propositions; any conclusion which results from reason or argument;
inference.; as, See Thee. To play the prince. The first and third persons
singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense;
as, I was; he was. flattered Character; condition of being; purpose subserved
or office filled. The possessive of he; as, the book is his. That which is
fallen down and become worthless from injury or decay; as, his mind is a ruin;
especially, in the plural, the remains of a destroyed, dilapidated, or
desolate house, fortress, city, or the like.; Any one; the man or person; --
used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. Occupied;
employed; busy. To inclose; to take in; to harvest. a To contend; to strive
violently; to fight. In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. Belonging or pertaining to him; --
used as a pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers
are ready; formerly used also for its, but this use is now obsolete. A rib; a
side; a region or coast.; To urge with violence. factions To live; to have
life or the functions of vitality; as, men can not exist in water, nor fishes
on land. Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin;
he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of
the state. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. To cause to have prejudice; to prepossess with opinions formed without
due knowledge or examination; to bias the mind of, by hasty and incorrect
notions; to give an unreasonable bent to, as to one side or the other of a
cause; as, to prejudice a critic or a juryman. Denoting relation to place or
time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the
Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. To express the particulars of; to set down in
detail or in gross; to represent fully in words; to narrate; to recite; as, to
state the facts of a case, one's opinion, etc.. In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. To possess, as something which appertains to, is connected with,
or affects, one. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. to yield to the desire of; to gratify by compliance; to humor; to
withhold restraint from; as, to indulge children in their caprices or
willfulness; to indulge one's self with a rest or in pleasure. Not limited to
rules prescribed, or to usual bounds; irregular; excessive; immoderate; as, an
inordinate love of the world. An expressed wish; a request; petition...
Indicating As a A demonstrative pronoun; as, ldquothisrdquo and ldquothatrdquo
are demonstratives. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the
repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he,
she, it, we, ye, and they. (pl. The plural of that. See That.), As a
conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun.
usually points Beyond possession, control, or occupation; hence, in, or into,
a state of want, loss, or deprivation; -- used of office, business, property,
knowledge, etc.; as, the Democrats went out and the Whigs came in; he put his
money out at interest., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read
or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but
not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. refers Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste;
she has a husband to her mind., a A living, self-conscious being, as distinct
from an animal or a thing; a moral agent; a human being; a man, woman, or
child. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small
dots. In Scandinavian countries, a legislative or judicial assembly; -- used,
esp. in composition, in titles of such bodies. See Legislature, Norway.
Beforehand; antecedently; as, a plan previously formed. mentioned, Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. supposed
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. To exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality or as
a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain predicate, that is,
as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or as
identical with what is specified, -- a word or words for the predicate being
annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an animal;
to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the
cessation of existence; that is the man. imp. amp p. p. of Understand.. As a
relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or which, serving to point out,
and make definite, a person or thing spoken of, or alluded to, before, and may
be either singular or plural., as a Expressing, or apt to express, much;
displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her nature was demonstrative., The
flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of blossoming; also, the
hawthorn. To go before in order of time; to occur first with relation to
anything. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. A word used as the designation or appellation of a creature or thing,
existing in fact or in thought; a substantive. Accompaniment; as, she sang to
his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. A relative pronoun, used esp.
in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to
what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause
(generally involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded).
It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons. As an
indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains. refers;
as, In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a
wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. A compound relative or
indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those
which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will. Man; a male;
any male person; -- in this sense used substantively. 3d pers. sing. pres. of
Have. imp. amp p. p. of Say. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
Actual; not counterfeit, adulterated, or pretended; genuine; pure; real; as,
true balsam; true love of country; a true Christian.; The plural of that. See
That. Not out; within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes an adverb by
omission of its object, leaving it as the representative of an adverbial
phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is; as, he takes in the
situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans were in (i.
e., in office); in at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or into the
head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in (i. e.,
into the house). By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. a vessel suspended below a balloon, designed to carry people or
measuring instruments for scientific research. are To manure; to improve.
apples. To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament
with its stars; a bride with a large fortune. Relation; regard; respect. In a
very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
circumstances Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. conditions; as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely,
and usually followed by a relative pronoun. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened
in the last century; in all my life. difficulties; This or that female; the
woman understood or referred to; the animal of the female sex, or object
personified as feminine, which was spoken of. imp. amp p. p. of Stand. Not
out; within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its
object, leaving it as the representative of an adverbial phrase, the context
indicating what the omitted object is; as, he takes in the situation (i. e.,
he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in
at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in
(i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). a To
shine with flame; to glow with flame; as, the fire blazes. Denoting the
material of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a
throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. Easy to be
digested; not oppressive to the stomach; as, light food; also, containing
little nutriment.. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. act During; in the course of. preventing Ere; before; sooner than.
hindering; That which obstructs or impedes; an obstacle; an impediment; a
hindrance. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as,
to boast of one's achievements; they talked of many things. action, access,
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
approach; thwarting. Denoting Such portion of any quantity, as when taken a
certain number of times, will exactly make that quantity; as, 3 is a part of
12; -- the opposite of multiple.  Also, a line or other element of a
geometrical figure. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or
that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of
mist; a cup of water. an aggregate Ere; before; sooner than. Containing the
total amount, number, etc.; comprising all the parts; free from deficiency;
all; total; entire; as, the whole earth; the whole solar system; the whole
army; the whole nation.; That which is connected with a principal or greater
thing; an appendage; an appurtenance. The preposition to primarily indicates
approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and
attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement
toward; -- opposed to from. a To reckon as one of a collection or multitude.
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
That which can be increased, diminished, or measured; especially (Math.),
anything to which mathematical processes are applicable. mentioned; A place or
space outside of something; a nook or corner; an angle projecting outward; an
open space; -- chiefly used in the phrase ins and outs; as, the ins and outs
of a question. See under In. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or
time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed
time.; Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving
behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting
out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. amongst; as, Denoting reference to a
thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements;
they talked of many things. As an adjective, this has the same demonstrative
force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun; as, this book; this way to
town. In a small quantity or degree; not much; slightly; somewhat; -- often
with a preceding it. Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and
usually followed by a relative pronoun. See Have. Considerable in number or
quantity. Addition; union; accumulation. To refrain from inflicting harm; to
use mercy or forbearance.; Considerable in number or quantity. Denoting
reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's
achievements; they talked of many things. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. mines A man. See productive.; Greatest in
degree; as, he has the most need of it. Denoting relation to place or time;
belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle
Ages; in the days of Herod. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. The body of actors employed in a theater or in
the production of a play.. A To put together, as elements, ingredients, or
parts, in order to form a whole; to combine, mix, or unite. Arising from
relation; resulting from connection with, or reference to, something else; not
absolute. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. Boundless; infinite. A word used instead of a noun or name, to
avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or
you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they., Not flowing; stagnant; as, standing
water. Indicating the antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or
inducement accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of
anything; that on account of which a thing is or is done. any Any person,
indefinitely; a person or body; as, what one would have well done, one should
do one's self. A compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one
which, whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as,
take which you will., Whether one or another; whether one or the other; which;
that one (of two or more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will lead you
to town., To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that,
for the reason that, because. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively
and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer
to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is
it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should
take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1.,
The plural of that. See That. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively
and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer
to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is
it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should
take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1.,
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. . . . A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and
adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an
individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it?
which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take;
which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1., and See
Thee. That which is equal or similar to another; the counterpart; an exact
resemblance; a copy.; as, To bear without ill humor or resentment; to submit
to; to tolerate; to endure; as, to take a joke; he will take an affront from
no man. A compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which,
whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take
which you will. The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. To exercise an act of volition; to choose; to decide; to determine;
to decree.., Sensational; -- said of some newspapers, their makers, etc.; as,
yellow journal, journalism, etc. Ere; before; sooner than. A yellow color,
like that of the metal; as, a flower tipped with gold. The hue or color
characteristic of good health and spirits; ruddy complexion., -- represented
With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last
century; in all my life. The act of pulling, or attracting. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. An impression
from an engraved plate, block of wood, or other material; a print. Near; in
the neighborhood; present; as, there was no person by at the time. Envincing
little worth or ability; not large-minded; -- sometimes, in reproach, paltry;
mean. dots. On; along; in traversing. Compare 5. means Denoting nearness or
distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time.; Passing near; going past; past; beyond;
as, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by. By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. agency Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by.. Apprehension
Denoting passage from one state to another; from. incurring, Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The state of
being solicitous; uneasiness of mind occasioned by fear of evil or desire
good; anxiety. Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office
filled. avoid, God's The effects of anger or indignation; the just punishment
of an offense or a crime.; See Thee. Shaking; tottering; quivering. and awful
A person entitled to be revered; -- a title applied to priests or other
ministers with the pronouns his or your; sometimes poetically to a father.
imp. amp p. p. or a. from Feel. In the direction of; to. By that; by how much;
by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Highest in authority;
holding the highest place in authority, government, or power. Lifetime; mortal
existence.. Denoting A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. agent, Ere; before; sooner than. Among Trinitarians, one of the
three subdivisions of the Godhead (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost);
an hypostasis. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving
the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral
matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play,
by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. The objective case
of who.  See Who., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or
may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. An inanimate object, in distinction from a living being; any lifeless
material. With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of;
through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by fire; profit
is made by commerce; to take by force. A interrogative pronoun, used both
substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask
for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as,
which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route
he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What,
pron., 1., anything The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., Ere;
before; sooner than. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
Performed; executed; finished.; With, as means, way, process, etc.; through
means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is
destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force.. A To effect
a composition; to come to terms of agreement; to agree; to settle by a
compromise; -- usually followed by with before the person participating, and
for before the thing compounded or the consideration. Having relation or
reference; referring; respecting; standing in connection; pertaining; as,
arguments not relative to the subject. Ere; before; sooner than. Having no
determined or certain limits; large and unmeasured, though not infinite;
unlimited; as, indefinite space; the indefinite extension of a straight line.
A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The
personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and
they., Not transitory; not liable to fade or vanish; lasting; as, a standing
color. One who takes, or that which is said on, the affrimative side; that
which is said in favor of some one or something; -- the antithesis of against,
and commonly used in connection with it. any Being a single unit, or entire
being or thing, and no more; not multifold; single; individual. A relative
pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes
with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a
following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to
something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was
formerly used of persons., Whether one or another; whether one or the other;
which; that one (of two or more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will
lead you to town., To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that,
in that, for the reason that, because. A interrogative pronoun, used both
substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask
for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as,
which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route
he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What,
pron., 1., The plural of that. See That. A relative pronoun, used esp. in
referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to
what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause
(generally involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded).
It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons., See
Thee. . . . A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively,
and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual
person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was
it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to
live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1., and See Thee. To suit; to
please; to be agreeable to.; as, To please; to gain reception; to succeed. A
compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which,
whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take
which you will. The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. To enjoin or command, as that which is determined by an act of
volition; to direct; to order.., anything See Thee. The third tone of the
scale; the mediant. A human being spoken of indefinitely; one; a man; as, any
person present. Distinguished as existing in a very high degree; rarely
equaled; eminent; extraordinary; exceptional; as, a man of singular gravity or
attainments. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Pertaining to, or
constituting, the essential part or principles; as, the law substantive. A
word; a vocable. To exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a
reality or as a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain
predicate, that is, as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to a
certain sort, or as identical with what is specified, -- a word or words for
the predicate being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to be large, or
strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three and two are
five; annihilation is the cessation of existence; that is the man., With
reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in difficulties; she stood
in a blaze of light. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. The indicative mood. Manner of conceiving and expressing action
or being, as positive, possible, conditional, hypothetical, obligatory,
imperitive, etc., without regard to other accidents, such as time, person,
number, etc.; as, the indicative mood; the imperitive mood; the infinitive
mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode., To exhibit or offer to view or
notice; to lay before one's perception or cognizance; to set forth; to present
a fine appearance. One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by
adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event
signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.;
as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by
a relative pronoun. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.; The
chemical symbol for helium. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a
A human being; -- opposed to beast..  The pope or his court at Rome; as, to
appeal to the see of Rome. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on
Thursday.. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it
rains. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. p. p. from Do, and
formerly the infinitive. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. agreed; To retard; to hinder; to impede; to oppose.
As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive
used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). To signify; to
represent or symbolize; to answer to. a A game, match, etc., open only to
losers in early stages of contests. Ere; before; sooner than. An agreement
between parties concerning the sale of property; or a contract by which one
party binds himself to transfer the right to some property for a
consideration, and the other party binds himself to receive the property and
pay the consideration.; -- used In the form of an ellipse..., Suited or
intended to excite temporarily great interest or emotion; melodramatic;
emotional; as, sensational plays or novels; sensational preaching; sensational
journalism; a sensational report.; -- Before-mentioned; already spoken of or
specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style. Denoting part of an
aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from
amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. Certain; those of one part or portion; --
in distinction from other or others; as, some men believe one thing, and
others another. newspapers, The possessive case of the personal pronoun they;
as, their houses; their country. makers, etc.; as, A yellow pigment. A diary;
an account of daily transactions and events., The periodical collection and
publication of current news; the business of managing, editing, or writing
for, journals, newspapers, magazines, broadcasting media such as radio or
television, or other news media such as distribution over the internet; as,
political journalism; broadcast journalism; print journalism., etc. To become
yellow or yellower. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or
may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. Figuratively, something precious or pure; as, hearts of gold. That
which covers or hides the real character of anything; semblance; excuse;
disguise; appearance., -- represented With reference to physical surrounding,
personal states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in
darkness; to live in fear. The process of stretching or spreading metals as by
hammering, or, as in forming wire from rods or tubes and cups from sheet
metal, by pulling them through dies. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. The act or art of producing upon hard
material incised or raised patterns, characters, lines, and the like;
especially, the art of producing such lines, etc., in the surface of metal
plates or blocks of wood. Engraving is used for the decoration of the surface
itself; also, for producing an original, from which a pattern or design may be
printed on paper. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition,
giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral
matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play,
by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. Same as Little go.
See under Little, a. dots. Figuratively, A person or thing importance. Of
great value or worth; very valuable; highly esteemed; dear; beloved; as,
precious recollections. Ere; before; sooner than. Of a single, simple sound or
tone; -- said of some vowels and the unaspirated consonants.; as, hearts
Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a
league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. Money; riches;
wealth.. A Constituting difference, or distinction from everything else;
distinctive; peculiar; characteristic. Something characteristic; a mark; a
token., as a A cloth usually bearing a device or devices and used to indicate
nationality, party, etc., or to give or ask information; -- commonly attached
to a staff to be waved by the wind; a standard; a banner; an ensign; the
colors; as, the national flag; a military or a naval flag. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Exactly
corresponding; resembling in all respects; precisely like. An abstract or
compendium of faith or doctrine; a creed, or a summary of the articles of
religion. (usually With reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in
difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. See Thee. Relating to, or
containing, more than one; designating two or more; as, a plural word.); as, A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. a
distinguishing emblem; as, his tie proclaimed his school colors. A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Any hue
distinguished from white or black. During; in the course of. a To receive on
board ship; as, to ship a sea. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Government; mode of ruling; rule; authority;
regimen.; By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. a distinguishing emblem; as, his tie proclaimed his school colors.
Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the
source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no
body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. a A game, match, etc., open
only to losers in early stages of contests. A breastband for a leadsman. (To
introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently
preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be., Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that
which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a
cup of water. See Thee. A large size of writing paper; as, flat cap; foolscap;
legal cap. and To put a jacket on; to furnish, as a boiler, with a jacket. p.
p. of Wear. Near to, while passing; hence, from one to the other side of;
past; as, to go by a church. See Thee. A dealer in horses; a horse trader.).,
-- represented To denote the accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc;
-- sometimes equivalent to by. One of whom inquires can be made as to the
integrity, capacity, and the like, of another. Addition; union; accumulation.
a A determinate quantity, to which a variable one continually approaches, and
may differ from it by less than any given difference, but to which, under the
law of variation, the variable can never become exactly equivalent. Denoting
relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens;
the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. To pass time; to delay.;
as, With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or
seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. an
A measure of distance traveled.; As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal
verb; as, it snows; it rains. happened With reference to a limit of time; as,
in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. See Thee. To
continue in time; to endure; to remain in existence. A division of the Roman
people formed according to their property, for the purpose of voting for civil
officers.; A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. all Of or belonging to me;
-- used always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the
predicate; as, the book is mine. See Mine. The system of animal nature;
animals in general, or considered collectively.. A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. A series of actions, motions, or
occurrences; progressive act or transaction; continuous operation; normal or
actual course or procedure; regular proceeding; as, the process of vegetation
or decomposition; a chemical process; processes of nature. In a general sense,
from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; --
used in a variety of applications; as: pulling To come out with; to make
known. and elongating By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; --
used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. To cut or divide into long, thin pieces, or into
very small pieces; to cut or rend lengthwise; to slit; as, to sliver wood. Out
of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by
reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out,
commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. See Thee. A roll of wool or other fiber
as it comes from the carding machine. A political organization arranged and
controlled by one or more leaders for selfish, private or partisan ends; the
Tammany machine., Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the procession
has gone by; a bird flew by. Making a revolution or revolutions; rotating; --
used also figuratively of time, seasons, etc., depending on the revolution of
the earth. rollers, Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to
the music of a piano. Preparation. As a substance for any noun of the neuter
gender; as, here is the book, take it home. Indicating that in the character
of or as being which anything is regarded or treated; to be, or as being. a.
amp n. from Spin.. A A minute part or portion of matter; a morsel; a little
bit; an atom; a jot; as, a particle of sand, of wood, of dust. As a relative
pronoun, that is equivalent to who or which, serving to point out, and make
definite, a person or thing spoken of, or alluded to, before, and may be
either singular or plural. marks an alternative; as, The pronoun of the second
person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person
or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. An auxiliary verb qualifying the
meaning of another verb, Instructed or knowing by reading; versed in books;
learned. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write,
-- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Desire
or wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. To make known
by writing; to record; to prove by one's own written testimony; -- often used
reflexively., -- As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or which,
serving to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken of, or
alluded to, before, and may be either singular or plural. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now
oftener expressed by can. To place; to put. A single person or thing. Denoting
the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by.
A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. things at
The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you. What the will
dictates or prefers as gratifying or satisfying; hence, will; choice; wish;
purpose., Otherwise than that; that not; -- commonly, after a negative, with
that. Shorn; shaven. The one and the other; the two; the pair, without
exception of either..  The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding
to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural
(they, their or theirs, them). corresponds Effect; end; consequence; as, the
prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent
factions exist to the prejudice of the state. Either precedes two, or more,
cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is
correlative to or..  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. A maiden. The act of riding; an excursion on horseback or
in a vehicle. Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases,
and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or. Comparison;
as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you
will offend him. The capital city of England. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Addition; union;
accumulation. A town in Berkshire, England..  As a demonstrative, especially
at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated,
named, or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I
saw it was John. Frequent; common; repeated. connects a An indefinite number
of terms succeeding one another, each of which is derived from one or more of
the preceding by a fixed law, called the law of the series; as, an
arithmetical series; a geometrical series. Denoting that by which a person or
thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due
to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. words Ere; before; sooner than. propositions, presenting a Act of
choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from two or more things
that which is preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring one thing
to another; election. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by
which, anything is, or is done; by. Each of two; the one and the other; both;
-- formerly, also, each of any number.; as, The man or male being (or object
personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated;
a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject
already indicated. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time
of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. To fix the mind closely upon a subject; to
dwell upon anything in thought; to muse; to ponder. An exclamation of mild
surprise., Ere; before; sooner than. To give medicine to; to affect as a
medicine does; to remedy; to cure., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. The state of being divine; the nature or
essence of God; deity; godhead., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you
may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely,
and usually followed by a relative pronoun. Modesty, courtesy, or concession,
or a desire to soften a question or remark. To engage in; to become occupied
with; as, to enter the legal profession, the book trade, etc. Denoting
inclusion; as, put these ideas into other words. Instruments of any
occupation.. As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out,
or refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be
understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers;
as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are good apples. A
interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct
and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing
among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is
the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to
die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. Having the surface covered with irregular, impressed lines.; an
Made by engraving or ornamented with engraving. Loosely, a sporting contest
for a prize; specif., in horse racing, a race for a prize, the contestants not
making a stake.. To draw near; to approach. Character; condition of being;
purpose subserved or office filled., Space of time, or continued duration,
esp. when short; a time; as, one while we thought him innocent. Relating to
the act of passing or going; going by, beyond, through, or away; departing.;
From this source or origin., Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. A single person or
thing. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state
or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a
tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to
wealth and honor. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. Not this, but the contrary; opposite; as, the other side of a
river. Long; large; extensive. Denoting passage from one state to another;
from.; A former time or state; a state of things gone by.; as, In a very
general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
Noisy merriment; as, a high go. Aside; as, to lay by; to put by. a A building
set apart for Christian worship.. Lifetime; mortal existence. During; in the
course of. Sleight. Importance with respect to what comes after; power to
influence or produce an effect; value; moment; rank; distinction.; Wanting
force, vigor, or efficiency in action or expression; not full, loud, bright,
strong, rapid, etc.; faint; as, a feeble color; feeble motion. With reference
to a whole which includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in
his family; the first regiment in the army. Induction. Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Subject; matter.; See
important.; Found anywhere; common.; Not significant; void of signification,
sense, or import; meaningless; as, insignificant words.; as, a Not prolonged
in duration; not extended in time; short; as, after a small space. A defective
point in an electric circuit due to a crossing of the parts of the conductor,
or to contact with another conductor or the earth, or to a break in the
circuit.; a Having little size, compared with other things of the same kind;
little in quantity or degree; diminutive; not large or extended in dimension;
not great; not much; inconsiderable; as, a small man; a small river. Any
particular occupation or employment engaged in for livelihood or gain, as
agriculture, trade, art, or a profession.. dots. Any An Not agreeable to a
rule or standard, or to duty; disproportioned; excessive; immoderate;
inordinate; as, an undue attachment to forms; an undue rigor in the execution
of law. An indulgent act; favor granted; gratification. In a general sense,
from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; --
used in a variety of applications; as: A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. appetite; The act of transgressing, or of passing
over or beyond any law, civil or moral; the violation of a law or known
principle of rectitude; breach of command; fault; offense; crime; sin.
Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source,
descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood.
Belonging to one; one's own; individual. Calmness of mind; equanimity; as, to
bear adversity with moderation. With privilege or possession; -- used to
denote a holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in
of the seisin of her husband. A character [natur] used to contradict, or to
remove the effect of, a sharp or flat which has preceded it, and to restore
the unaltered note. gratifications; Habitual or excessive indulgence in
alcoholic liquors.; A trifle which wastes time or distracts attention..
Denoting The carrying back, and giving effect or operation to, an act or
proceeding frrom some previous date or time, by a sort of fiction, as if it
had happened or begun at that time. In such case the act is said to take
effect by relation. Addition; union; accumulation. to recognize or identify (a
person). Ere; before; sooner than. To ascertain or record the time, duration,
or rate of; as, to time the speed of horses, or hours for workmen.; That which
belongs to one; that which pertains to one; hence, goods or effects. As sign
of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8)., A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. connected by
a conductor so as to allow the flow of electric signals. See Withe.; as, A
man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and corresponding to the
present indefinite one or they. Denoting reference to a thing; about;
concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of
many things. Athens; See Thee. To stock with people or inhabitants; to fill as
with people; to populate. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or
time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed
time. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. The
point or part equally distant from the extremities or exterior limits, as of a
line, a surface, or a solid; an intervening point or part in space, time, or
order of series; the midst; central portion Ages; Not out; within; inside. In,
the preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as
the representative of an adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the
omitted object is; as, he takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in
his mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out
at the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn
at the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. days Denoting the material of
which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a
sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. Herod. advantage
Excessively; Likewise; also; in addition. A thing uncommon, wonderful, or
noticeable; something considerable. Ere; before; sooner than. Over; more than
enough; -- noting excess; as, a thing is too long, too short, or too wide; too
high; too many; too much. Nobly; illustriously; magnanimously.; -- For the
most part; mostly. used Not out; within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes
an adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the representative of an
adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is; as, he
takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans
were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or
into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in
(i. e., into the house). A literary, musical, or artistic production,
especially one showing study and care in arrangement; -- often used of an
elementary essay or translation done as an educational exercise.; as, To work
too much, or beyond one's strength., Too hasty; precipitate; rash., Too eager;
too impatient., Anxious in an excessive or needless degree., overreact, To
cook too long.. and above an Precisely Ere; before; sooner than. In a definite
manner; with precision; precisely; determinately. conceived A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Settled; established;
fixed.; Strained; drawn close; tight; as, a strict embrace; a strict
ligature.. In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a
pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To require; to constrain; to
compel; to force; to cause; to occasion; -- followed by a noun or pronoun and
infinitive. See Thee. Contemporaneous in origin; as, the equivalent strata of
different countries. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of
last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8).; As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last
defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). Evenly balanced; not unduly inclining to either side;
characterized by fairness; unbiased; impartial; equitable; just.; To be
equivalent or equal to; to counterbalance.. Indicating To introduce a
consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or such, sometimes
by that. Readly to do or learn; compliant with duty; not froward; apt; docile;
tractable; as, a toward youth. A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to
an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is
specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause
(generally involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded).
It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons. A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. action
Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source,
descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood.
anything The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. having a
specified direction; often used in combination; as, goal-directed., Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A mark of
punctuation; a character used to mark the divisions of a composition, or the
pauses to be observed in reading, or to point off groups of figures, etc.; a
stop, as a comma, a semicolon, and esp. a period; hence, figuratively, an end,
or conclusion. Near; about; approaching to. Of what sort or kind; what; what
a; who. To make a significant movement or gesture, as with the hand; as, to
motion to one to take a seat. The third person singular of the substantive
verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See
Be. successful or assured of success; as, a self-made man.; &unr_;ntending As
sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing
the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). To
have recourse; to resort; as, to go to law. As sign of the infinitive, to had
originally the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun,
and connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus,
ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do
my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost
constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no
prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject;
thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die for one's country is
noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the
design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to;
as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8).. Used As a substantive, name, or
noun; as, an adjective may be used substantively. To denote a close or direct
relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. antecedent suppressed,
Equal in measure but not admitting of superposition; -- applied to magnitudes;
as, a square may be equivalent to a triangle. In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence
expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. A
compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which,
whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take
which you will., Ere; before; sooner than. The plural of that. See That.
[persons] Originally, an interrogative pronoun, later, a relative pronoun
also; -- used always substantively, and either as singular or plural.  See the
Note under What, pron., 1.  As interrogative pronouns, who and whom ask the
question: What or which person or persons? Who and whom, as relative pronouns
(in the sense of that), are properly used of persons (corresponding to which,
as applied to things), but are sometimes, less properly and now rarely, used
of animals, plants, etc.  Who and whom, as compound relatives, are also used
especially of persons, meaning the person that; the persons that; the one
that; whosoever., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving
by small dots. The plural of that. See That. [things] Of what sort or kind;
what; what a; who.; -- called a To compose; to constitute. Arising from
relation; resulting from connection with, or reference to, something else; not
absolute.. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
Next after the second; coming after two others; -- the ordinal of three; as,
the third hour in the day. A human being spoken of indefinitely; one; a man;
as, any person present. Separate or apart from others; single; distinct.
Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity
mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some
of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. See Thee. Pertaining to,
or constituting, the essential part or principles; as, the law substantive. A
word; a vocable. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday.,
One who is in office; -- the opposite of out. See Thee. The indicative mood.
Temper of mind; temporary state of the mind in regard to passion or feeling;
humor; as, a melancholy mood; a suppliant mood., To make a gift of; to bestow;
to give, generally in a formal or ceremonious manner; to grant; to confer. One
of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary words, so
as to indicate the time of the action or event signified; the modification
which verbs undergo for the indication of time.; as, The man or male being (or
object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously
designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a
specified subject already indicated. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be.; Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used
substantively. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a An adult
male servant; also, a vassal; a subject..  To be attentive; to take care; to
give heed; -- generally with to; as, to see to the house. To exist in a
certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality or as a product of
thought; to exist as the subject of a certain predicate, that is, as having a
certain attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or as identical with
what is specified, -- a word or words for the predicate being annexed; as, to
be happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero;
to be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of
existence; that is the man.. the sixteenth letter of the English alphabet, is
a nonvocal consonant whose form and value come from the Latin, into which
language the letter was brought, through the ancient Greek, from the
Phoelignician, its probable origin being Egyptian.  Etymologically P is most
closely related to b, f, and v; as hobble, hopple; father, paternal;
recipient, receive. See B, F, and M.. the sixteenth letter of the English
alphabet, is a nonvocal consonant whose form and value come from the Latin,
into which language the letter was brought, through the ancient Greek, from
the Phoelignician, its probable origin being Egyptian.  Etymologically P is
most closely related to b, f, and v; as hobble, hopple; father, paternal;
recipient, receive. See B, F, and M.. amp a. Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. To allow or admit
by way of supposition., V, the twenty-second letter of the English alphabet,
is a vocal consonant. V and U are only varieties of the same character, U
being the cursive form, while V is better adapted for engraving, as in stone.
The two letters were formerly used indiscriminately, and till a comparatively
recent date words containing them were often classed together in dictionaries
and other books of reference (see U). The letter V is from the Latin alphabet,
where it was used both as a consonant (about like English w) and as a vowel.
The Latin derives it from a form (V) of the Greek vowel Upsilon (see Y), this
Greek letter being either from the same Semitic letter as the digamma F (see
F), or else added by the Greeks to the alphabet which they took from the
Semitic. Etymologically v is most nearly related to u, w, f, b, p; as in vine,
wine; avoirdupois, habit, have; safe, save; trover, troubadour, trope. See U,
F, etc.. Before; sooner than.; Under the cognizance or jurisdiction of.; In
the western United States, one who settles on government land before it is
legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives
to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who
does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an
unfair advantage. A particle expressing comparison, used after certain
adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better,
other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared
in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in
the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a
preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually
introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want..
rendered. A The spoken sign of a conception or an idea; an articulate or vocal
sound, or a combination of articulate and vocal sounds, uttered by the human
voice, and by custom expressing an idea or ideas; a single component part of
human speech or language; a constituent part of a sentence; a term; a vocable.
placed Open for; free of access to; in the power of. nouns Comparison; as,
three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will
offend him. That which terminates, circumscribes, restrains, or confines; the
bound, border, or edge; the utmost extent; as, the limit of a walk, of a town,
of a country; the limits of human knowledge or endeavor. Yellow or gold color,
-- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To consider
individually; to mention each individual. The possessive case of the personal
pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. That which is signified,
whether by act lanquage; signification; sense; import; as, the meaning of a
hint.. Exerting a Unusual; singular; rare; strange; as, the sky had a peculiar
appearance. Power or authority arising from elevated station, excelence of
character or intellect, wealth, etc.; reputation; acknowledged ascendency; as,
he is a man of influence in the community. Excessively; too much or too
greatly; -- chiefly used in composition; as, overwork, overhasty, overeager,
overanxious, overreact, overcook. any A particular character in a drama or a
play; an assumed personification; also, the language, actions, and influence
of a character or an actor in a play; or, figuratively, in real life; as, to
play the part of Macbeth. See To act a part, under Act. Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. See Thee.
A figure that has length, breadth, and thickness; any solid figure.;
preventing A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. p. a. amp vb. n. of Cure. An alteration in the state of the body or of
some of its organs, interrupting or disturbing the performance of the vital
functions, and causing or threatening pain and weakness; malady; affection;
illness; sickness; disorder; -- applied figuratively to the mind, to the moral
character and habits, to institutions, the state, etc. Passing near; going
past; past; beyond; as, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by. a That
which is peculiar; a sole or exclusive property; a prerogative; a
characteristic. adaptation, and Shorn; shaven. To or against the surface of;
-- used to indicate the motion of a thing as coming or falling to the surface
of another; as, rain falls on the earth. The chief of an order of monks, or of
all the houses or congregations under the same rule. principles; as, An
alkaloid extracted from the bark of several species of cinchona (esp. Cinchona
Calisaya) as a bitter white crystalline substance, C20H24N2O2. Hence, by
extension (Med.), any of the salts of this alkaloid, as the acetate, chloride,
sulphate, etc., employed as a febrifuge or antiperiodic. Called also quinia,
quinina, etc. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a Specifying;
definite, or making definite; limited; precise; discriminating; as, a specific
statement. Intoxicating liquor; drink. Not out; within; inside. In, the
preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the
representative of an adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted
object is; as, he takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his
mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at
the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at
the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). cases Denoting relation to place
or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the
Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. Air infected with some noxious substance
capable of engendering disease; esp., an unhealthy exhalation from certain
soils, as marshy or wet lands, producing fevers; miasma.. As adverb: To such a
degree; so; as, he was that frightened he could say nothing. A compound
relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that
which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will.
The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. signified Ere; before; sooner
than. successful or assured of success; as, a self-made man. of Know.; To
introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the
reason that, because. That which is signified, whether by act lanquage;
signification; sense; import; as, the meaning of a hint. A interrogative
pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect
questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among
several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the
house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die? 
See the Note under What, pron., 1. a An event considered by the Jews as
indicating the divine will, or as manifesting an interposition of the divine
power for some special end; a miracle; a wonder., Style of writing or
printing; handwriting; the peculiar form of letters used by a particular
person or people; as, an inscription in the Runic character., A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Ten and a half quires, or,
commonly, 250 sheets, of paper printed on both sides; also, in some cases, the
same number of sheets printed on one side, or half the number printed on both
sides. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Made tense; stretched
out; extended; forcible; violent. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally
the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and
connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus,
ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do
my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost
constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no
prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject;
thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die for one's country is
noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the
design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to;
as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). To manage with privacy; to carry
out.; as, A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
That which is signified or made known; that meaning which a sign, character,
or token is intended to convey; as, the signification of words. Denoting the
material of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a
throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. words.
Denoting Quarter; region; district; -- usually in the plural. In a general
sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: an aggregate Ere;
before; sooner than. Containing the total amount, number, etc.; comprising all
the parts; free from deficiency; all; total; entire; as, the whole earth; the
whole solar system; the whole army; the whole nation.; Family; relations;
household. The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion
made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also,
motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. a
That which is regulated by count; poetic measure, as divisions of time or
number of syllables; hence, poetry, verse; -- chiefly used in the plural. Ere;
before; sooner than. That which can be increased, diminished, or measured;
especially (Math.), anything to which mathematical processes are applicable.
mentioned; Beyond possession, control, or occupation; hence, in, or into, a
state of want, loss, or deprivation; -- used of office, business, property,
knowledge, etc.; as, the Democrats went out and the Whigs came in; he put his
money out at interest. In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from;
belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications;
as:; Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving
behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting
out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. amongst; as, Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. As a
demonstrative pronoun, this denotes something that is present or near in place
or time, or something just mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned.
Small in dignity, power, or importance; not great; insignificant;
contemptible. The man or male being (or object personified to which the
masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the
masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already indicated.
See Have. A part; a portion; -- used pronominally, and followed sometimes by
of; as, some of our provisions. Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to
twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. Being over and above
what is necessary, or what must be used or reserved; not wanted, or not used;
superfluous; as, I have no spare time.; Consisting of a greater or less
portion or sum; composed of a quantity or number which is not stated; -- used
to express an indefinite quantity or number; as, some wine; some water; some
persons.  Used also pronominally; as, I have some. Denoting passage from one
state to another; from. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. mines The imperfect indicative plural, and imperfect
subjunctive singular and plural, of the verb be.  See Be. See productive.; In
the greatest or highest degree. Denoting relation to place or time; belonging
to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in
the days of Herod. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. An association of persons for the purpose of carrying on some
enterprise or business; a corporation; a firm; as, the East India Company; an
insurance company; a joint-stock company.. To denote association in respect of
situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of. Appeal. Accord;
adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind.
Quality, position, rank, or capacity; quality or conduct with respect to a
certain office or duty; as, in the miserable character of a slave; in his
character as a magistrate; her character as a daughter., To arrive at; to come
to; to get as far as., Length; extent; sweep; as, scope of cable., A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Power or
authority arising from elevated station, excelence of character or intellect,
wealth, etc.; reputation; acknowledged ascendency; as, he is a man of
influence in the community. considered as establishing a That which limits; a
restriction; a qualification; a restraining condition, defining circumstance,
or qualifying conception; as, limitations of thought.; as, Addition; union;
accumulation. To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have existence.
With reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment;
-- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in
love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. one's A letter or epistle; --
so called in civility or compliment; as, your favor of yesterday is received..
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. The third tone of the scale; the mediant. To represent as a person; to
personify; to impersonate. Engaged in by only one on a side; single. Denoting
relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens;
the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. See Thee. Betokening or
expressing existence; as, the substantive verb, that is, the verb to be. A
word which affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of
speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action. To take place; to
happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday., The specific signification of in is
situation or place with respect to surrounding, environment, encompassment,
etc. It is used with verbs signifying being, resting, or moving within limits,
or within circumstances or conditions of any kind conceived of as limiting,
confining, or investing, either wholly or in part. In its different
applications, it approaches some of the meanings of, and sometimes is
interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and among. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Pointing out; bringing
to notice; giving intimation or knowledge of something not visible or obvious.
Manner of conceiving and expressing action or being, as positive, possible,
conditional, hypothetical, obligatory, imperitive, etc., without regard to
other accidents, such as time, person, number, etc.; as, the indicative mood;
the imperitive mood; the infinitive mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode.,
To present; to personate. One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or
by adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event
signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.;
as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by
a relative pronoun. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.; Man; a
male; any male person; -- in this sense used substantively. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a One possessing in a high degree the
distinctive qualities of manhood; one having manly excellence of any kind.. 
The seat of an archbishop; a province or jurisdiction of an archbishop; as, an
archiepiscopal see. To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have
existence.. One who, or that which, relates to, or is considered in its
relation to, something else; a relative object or term; one of two object or
term; one of two objects directly connected by any relation. To indicate the
position of; to place.; circumstances; Lasting for a time only; existing or
continuing for a limited time; not permanent; as, the patient has obtained
temporary relief. Condition of prosperity or grandeur; wealthy or prosperous
circumstances; social importance. A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. The state of being related or of referring; what
is apprehended as appertaining to a being or quality, by considering it in its
bearing upon something else; relative quality or condition; the being such and
such with regard or respect to some other thing; connection; as, the relation
of experience to knowledge; the relation of master to servant. at a Impulsive
power; force; momentum. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name
or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. action Of what
sort or kind; what; what a; who. excites To engage the attention of; to awaken
interest in; to excite emotion or passion in, in behalf of a person or thing;
as, the subject did not interest him; to interest one in charitable work., as
Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity
mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some
of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. persons With reference to
space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the
air. a suitable to or characteristic of or having the qualities of, a drama;
theatrical; as, a dramatic entrance in a swirling cape; a dramatic rescue at
sea.  Opposite of undramatic. The decorations and fittings of a stage,
representing the place in which the action is supposed to go on; one of the
slides, or other devices, used to give an appearance of reality to the action
of a play; as, to paint scenes; to shift the scenes; to go behind the scenes..
A Any very small portion or part; the smallest portion; as, he has not a
particle of patriotism or virtue. As a conjunction, that retains much of its
force as a demonstrative pronoun. marks an alternative; as, The pronoun of the
second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the
person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The early part or
springtime of life. To make a special study of, as by perusing textbooks; as,
to read theology or law. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. An auxiliary verb qualifying the meaning of another verb, To
compose or send letters., -- To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; --
usually preceded by so or such, sometimes by that. The third person singular
of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is;
he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. An auxiliary verb qualifying the meaning of another verb,
To see or inspect; to explore; as, to do all the points of interest. Denoting
a person or thing conceived or spoken of indefinitely; a certain. ldquoI am
the sister of one Claudiordquo [Shak.], that is, of a certain man named
Claudio. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled;
also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own
will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. things at The form of
the possessive case of the personal pronoun you. The gratification of the
senses or of the mind; agreeable sensations or emotions; the excitement,
relish, or happiness produced by the expectation or the enjoyment of something
good, delightful, or satisfying; -- opposed to pain, sorrow, etc., The end of
a connecting rod or other like piece, to which the boxing is attached by the
strap, cotter, and gib. A word used to express negation, prohibition, denial,
or refusal. The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of
either..  As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a
substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk).
corresponds The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival,
motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and
also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from.
Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any
number..  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and
objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. Liberty; permission; allowance. To manage insolently at will; to
domineer over. Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases,
and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or. As sign of the
infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). The
capital city of England. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to
his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the
prejudice of the state. A town in Berkshire, England..  As an indefinite
object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously
as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). Frequently; many times; not
seldom. connects a An indefinite number of terms succeeding one another, each
of which is derived from one or more of the preceding by a fixed law, called
the law of the series; as, an arithmetical series; a geometrical series. In a
general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: words Ere; before;
sooner than. propositions, presenting a The thing or person chosen; that which
is approved and selected in preference to others; selection. Denoting the
agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. Each
of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number.;
as, The chemical symbol for helium. The early part or springtime of life. Any
particular branch of learning that is studied; any object of attentive
consideration. Same as Lawe, v. t., A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. The science which relates to the prevention, cure,
or alleviation of disease., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. The Deity; the Supreme Being; God., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The man or male being (or
object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously
designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a
specified subject already indicated. Desire or wish, as in prayer,
imprecation, benediction, and the like. To deposit for copyright the title or
description of (a book, picture, map, etc.); as, ldquoentered according to act
of Congress.rdquo Expressing entrance, or a passing from the outside of a
thing to its interior parts; -- following verbs expressing motion; as, come
into the house; go into the church; one stream falls or runs into another;
water enters into the fine vessels of plants. imp. of Tread.. Any A part
assigned; allotment; share; fate. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole;
belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this
little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the
company. A small piece of metal cast lower than a face type, so as not to
receive the ink in printing, -- used to separate words or letters. regarded as
Regulated or determined by a standard; hence, equal; uniform; graduated;
limited; moderated; as, he walked with measured steps; he expressed himself in
no measured terms. Not on; away from; as, to be off one's legs or off the bed;
two miles off the shore. Ere; before; sooner than. Separate in place; not
conjunct; not united by growth or otherwise; -- with from. Out of the
neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason
of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement
of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence,
separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates,
the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as
setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the
occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of
to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword
from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the
fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from
bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it
proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. all
Alternate; second; -- used esp. in connection with every; as, every other day,
that is, each alternate day, every second day. Quantity of time; an interval
between two points of time; duration; time., Ere; before; sooner than.
appropriated The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival,
motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and
also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from.
Not much; a little; moderate; as, the censure was to some extent just. Serving
to define or restrict; limiting; determining; as, the definite article. Sight;
show; appearance; aspect. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Continued or repeated practice; customary employment; usage;
custom; manner; habit.; Hence: The ground which any one takes in an argument
or controversy; the point of view from which any one proceeds to a discussion;
also, a principle laid down as the basis of reasoning; a proposition; a
thesis; as, to define one's position; to appear in a false position.; To
forbid (aircraft) to fly; -- usually due to the unsafe condition of the
aircraft or lack of conformity to safety regulations; as, the discovery of a
crack in the wing of a Trijet caused the whole fleeet to be grounded for
inspection.; A place fitted or chosen for any certain permanent use or
occupation; as, a site for a church.; A small extent of space; a place; any
particular place.; In a rare manner or degree; seldom; not often; as, things
rarely seen., See bounded. A small piece of metal cast lower than a face type,
so as not to receive the ink in printing, -- used to separate words or
letters.. In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a
pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To mark out plainly; to signify by
a visible sign; to serve as the sign or name of; to indicate; to point out;
as, the hands of the clock denote the hour. a Concise; to the point; as, close
reasoning. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. To give direction; to point out a course; to act as guide. The
carrying back, and giving effect or operation to, an act or proceeding frrom
some previous date or time, by a sort of fiction, as if it had happened or
begun at that time. In such case the act is said to take effect by relation.
Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men
of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. The act of
opposing; an attempt to check, restrain, or defeat; resistance. A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. State of
being hostile; public or private enemy; unfriendliness; animosity.; --
Something equivalent; that which is equal in value, worth, weight, or force;
as, to offer an equivalent for damage done. Addition; union; accumulation.
against. Specifically: Good reputation; favorable regard; public esteem;
general credit; good name.; Specifically: Good character or reputation; credit
or honor derived from common or public opinion; -- opposed to disrepute.. A
process of execution by which the lands and goods of a debtor are valued and
delivered to the creditor.; The space or thing defined by limits.; The point
or step of progression to which a person has arrived; rank or station in life;
position. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or
quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to
spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. That which is
comprehended or inclosed within narrow limits; a summary; an epitome.; A
foreign substance, either liquid or solid, usually of minute size, inclosed in
the mass of a mineral. as A young pig, or a litter of pigs. as; as, The plural
of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun
proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. imp.
amp p. p. of Mete, to measure. The persons speaking, regarded as an object;
ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. Hence, it indicates motion,
course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything
capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as,
he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. To count; to reckon; to
ascertain the units of; to enumerate. Denoting that by which a person or thing
is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as,
they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. The number greater by a unit than two; three units or objects. The
product of ten multiplied by ten, or the number of ten times ten; a collection
or sum, consisting of ten times ten units or objects; five score. Also, a
symbol representing one hundred units, as 100 or C.. Inclosing; surrounding..,
As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was that frightened he could say
nothing. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and
in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual
person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was
it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to
live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. The parts or places which
surround another place, or lie in its neighborhood; suburbs; as, the environs
of a city or town. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. surrounds; Inclosing; encircling. conditions,
influences, Ere; before; sooner than. forces, With, as means, way, process,
etc.; through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of;
as, a city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force.
A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in
direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person
or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it?
which is the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to
live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. Manner of life; as,
riotous living; penurious living; earnest living. forms are influenced and
modified A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. The possessive case of the
personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. The process of
growing; the gradual increase of an animal or a vegetable body; the
development from a seed, germ, or root, to full size or maturity; increase in
size, number, frequency, strength, etc.; augmentation; advancement;
production; prevalence or influence; as, the growth of trade; the growth of
power; the growth of intemperance.  Idle weeds are fast in growth. and The
equivalent expression into which another has been developed.., By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. act Denoting that by
which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose
or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of
itself; he did it of necessity. The things which surround or environ; external
or attending circumstances or conditions., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The circumstances or condition of
a being or thing at any given time. Denoting that by which a person or thing
is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as,
they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. An abode; a cottage. surrounded; The act of prevailing over another
by arts, address, or fraud; deception; fraud; imposture; delusion.., etc. As a
One who, or that which, is substituted or put in the place of another; one who
acts for another; that which stands in lieu of something else Indicating the
antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or inducement
accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of anything; that on
account of which a thing is or is done. Certain; -- representing the object as
already particularized in terms which are not mentioned. As a whole; in gross;
for the most part. terms as, By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. A person of high rank. In a general sense,
from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; --
used in a variety of applications; as: affairs, By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. That which must exist as the
occasion or concomitant of something else; that which is requisite in order
that something else should take effect; an essential qualification;
stipulation; terms specified. During; in the course of. things, and See Thee.
To have an appearance or expression; to look; to seem to be (in a specified
condition).; as, By what name, designation, or title. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. As a demonstrative, especially at the
beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named,
or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it
was John. To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; --
equivalent to against. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; --
used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. To fall sick; to sicken. The male portion of the
human race.? By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. The quotient of a unit divided by three; one of three equal parts into
which anything is divided. A shoot or bud of a plant; a polyp or zooid of the
compound Hydrozoa, Anthozoa, etc.; also, an individual, in the narrowest
sense, among the higher animals. Each; individual; as, to convey several
parcels of land, all and singular. Denoting relation to place or time;
belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle
Ages; in the days of Herod. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. Depending on itself; independent. A word which
affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of speech
expressing being, action, or the suffering of action. To take place; to
happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday., With reference to a limit of time;
as, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Suggestive; representing
the whole by a part, as a fleet by a ship, a forest by a tree, etc. Manner of
conceiving and expressing action or being, as positive, possible, conditional,
hypothetical, obligatory, imperitive, etc., without regard to other accidents,
such as time, person, number, etc.; as, the indicative mood; the imperitive
mood; the infinitive mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode., To present; to
personate. One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding
auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified;
the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.; as, The man
or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is
assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually
referring to a specified subject already indicated. The third person singular
of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is;
he is a man.  See Be.; The chemical symbol for helium. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a An adult male servant; also, a vassal; a
subject..  The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a
bishop; as, the see of New York. To exist actually, or in the world of fact;
to have existence.. used To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon; as,
to see one home; to see one aboard the cars. A flexible, slender twig or
branch used as a band; a willow or osier twig; a withy.. verbs signifying In
an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or
a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. Of what sort or kind; what;
what a; who. exists With reference to physical surrounding, personal states,
etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live
in fear. any A shape; an image; a phantom., Which (of two); which one (of
two); -- used interrogatively and relatively. As a substance for any noun of
the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. To exist in a certain
manner or relation, -- whether as a reality or as a product of thought; to
exist as the subject of a certain predicate, that is, as having a certain
attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or as identical with what is
specified, -- a word or words for the predicate being annexed; as, to be
happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to
be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of
existence; that is the man. The substance or matter of which anything is made
or may be made. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving
by small dots. Of or pertaining to the intellectual and higher endowments of
the mind; mental; intellectual., actual A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Teaching the doctrine of idealism; as, the ideal
theory or philosophy.; Power of continuing life; the act of living, or living
comfortably. The state of existing or being; actual possession of being;
continuance in being; as, the existence of body and of soul in union; the
separate existence of the soul; immortal existence., as Marked; special. Out
of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by
reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out,
commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. a In Scandinavian countries, a
legislative or judicial assembly; -- used, esp. in composition, in titles of
such bodies. See Legislature, Norway. Unless; except; -- introducing a clause.
The state of being which begins with generation, birth, or germination, and
ends with death; also, the time during which this state continues; that state
of an animal or plant in which all or any of its organs are capable of
performing all or any of their functions; -- used of all animal and vegetable
organisms.; as, a A human being. Existence, as opposed to nonexistence; state
or sphere of existence.; Of or pertaining to the moral feelings or states of
the soul, as distinguished from the external actions; reaching and affecting
the spirits. beings., a. amp A measure of space equal to half an M (or em); an
en.. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving
behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting
out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. A place where one may rest, either
temporarily, as in an inn, or permanently, as, in an abode., As a numeral, V
stands for five, in English and Latin.. the twentieth letter of the English
alphabet, is a nonvocal consonant. With the letter h it forms the digraph th,
which has two distinct sounds, as in thin, then. See Guide to Pronunciation,
sectsect262-264, and also sectsect153, 156, 169, 172, 176, 178-180.. amp In
our old authors, I was often used for ay (or aye), yes, which is pronounced
nearly like it.., A An elementary particle. To introduce a purpose; -- usually
followed by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the
end, etc. marks an alternative; as, The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called
from their time of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. Reading. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. An auxiliary verb
qualifying the meaning of another verb, To compose or send letters., -- As a
demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a
person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a
demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has
said is true; those in the basket are good apples. The third person singular
of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is;
he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. The early part or springtime of life. To cash or to advance
money for, as a bill or note. A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or i.
Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity
mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some
of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. things at The form of the
possessive case of the personal pronoun you. That which pleases; a favor; a
gratification., Only; solely; merely. A word used to express negation,
prohibition, denial, or refusal. The one and the other; the two; the pair,
without exception of either..  As a substance for any noun of the neuter
gender; as, here is the book, take it home. corresponds Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. One of two;
the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a
larger number, for any one..  The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now
oftener expressed by can. A saddle horse. Either precedes two, or more,
cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is
correlative to or. Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to
the music of a piano. The capital city of England. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Addition; union;
accumulation. A town in Berkshire, England..  As a substitute for such general
terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how
is it with the sick man? Frequent; common; repeated. connects a In Engler's
system of plant classification, a group of families showing certain structural
or morphological relationships. It corresponds to the cohort of some writers,
and to the order of many modern systematists. Denoting that by which a person
or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due
to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. words Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving
by small dots. propositions, presenting a Care in selecting; judgment or skill
in distinguishing what is to be preferred, and in giving a preference;
discrimination. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or
impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of
their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. One of
two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a
larger number, for any one.; as, The chemical symbol for helium. Ability,
competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. A setting of the
mind or thoughts upon a subject; hence, application of mind to books, arts, or
science, or to any subject, for the purpose of acquiring knowledge.
Collectively, the whole body of rules relating to one subject, or emanating
from one source; -- including usually the writings pertaining to them, and
judicial proceedings under them; as, divine law; English law; Roman law; the
law of real property; insurance law., Ere; before; sooner than. Short for
Medicine man., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. The science of divine things; the science which treats of God, his
laws and moral government, and the way of salvation; theology., Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Man; a male; any
male person; -- in this sense used substantively. Ability, competency, or
possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. To come or go into; to pass into
the interior of; to pass within the outer cover or shell of; to penetrate; to
pierce; as, to enter a house, a closet, a country, a door, etc.; the river
enters the sea. To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of
applications. Instruments of any occupation.. By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. act Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. changing
A definite position or passage of a document. Ere; before; sooner than. The
position of the body; the situation or disposition of the several parts of the
body with respect to each other, or for a particular purpose; especially (Fine
Arts), the position of a figure with regard to the several principal members
by which action is expressed; attitude.; esp., See Thee. act Denoting passage
from one state to another; from. changing one's Habitation; place or house in
which a person lives; abode; domicile. To put out at interest; to invest; to
loan; as, to place money in a bank. Ere; before; sooner than. To assign a
place to; to put in a particular spot or place, or in a certain relative
position; to direct to a particular place; to fix; to settle; to locate; as,
to place a book on a shelf; to place balls in tennis. In a general sense,
from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; --
used in a variety of applications; as: Care; anxiety; diligence.. With
reference to physical surrounding, personal states, etc., abstractly denoted;
as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live in fear. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. limits Ere; before;
sooner than. A circle; a continent. Denoting the material of which anything is
composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a
wreath of mist; a cup of water.; Shorn; shaven. Beyond; additional; as, a
further reason for this opinion; nothing further to suggest. A reeumlntrant
angle; a nook or corner. The longest, or longer, dimension of any object, in
distinction from breadth or width; extent of anything from end to end; the
longest line which can be drawn through a body, parallel to its sides; as, the
length of a church, or of a ship; the length of a rope or line. A particle
expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express
comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It
is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes,
however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then
considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is
expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer
than that you should want.; as, Hence, inside the limits, reach, or influence
of; not going outside of; not beyond, overstepping, exceeding, or the like.
Four and one added; one more than four. miles; Wot not; know not; knows not.
One who longs for anything. With reference to space or place; as, he lives in
Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the air. The duration of one's life;
the hours and days which a person has at his disposal. A particle expressing
comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison
or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually
followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however,
the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then
considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is
expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer
than that you should want.; as, Hence, inside the limits, reach, or influence
of; not going outside of; not beyond, overstepping, exceeding, or the like. an
A measure of distance traveled.; Shorn; shaven. In a very great degree;
extremely; exceedingly. With reference to movement or tendency toward a
certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed
in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. The
measure of a syllable; that which determines the time in which it is
pronounced; as, the long or short quantity of a vowel or syllable.; as,
expenses imp. amp p. p. of Keep. Hence, inside the limits, reach, or influence
of; not going outside of; not beyond, overstepping, exceeding, or the like.
one's That which is caused to enter; inspiration; influence; hence, courage or
zeal imparted.. limits, A A subordinate word that is never inflected (a
preposition, conjunction, interjection); or a word that can not be used except
in compositions; as, ward in backward, ly in lovely. As a demonstrative
pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing
previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a demonstrative,
may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has said is true;
those in the basket are good apples. marks an alternative; as, The pronoun of
the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating
the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The early part or
springtime of life. Rennet. See 3d Reed. A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. An auxiliary verb qualifying the meaning of
another verb, To impress durably; to imprint; to engrave; as, truth written on
the heart., -- In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence
expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in
the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation,
benediction, and the like. To bring about; to produce, as an effect or result;
to effect; to achieve. Being a single unit, or entire being or thing, and no
more; not multifold; single; individual. Denoting relation to place or time;
belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle
Ages; in the days of Herod. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account;
-- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. things at The form of the possessive case of the
personal pronoun you. The gratification of the senses or of the mind;
agreeable sensations or emotions; the excitement, relish, or happiness
produced by the expectation or the enjoyment of something good, delightful, or
satisfying; -- opposed to pain, sorrow, etc., The buttocks; as, get up off
your butt and get to work; -- used as a euphemism, less objectionable than
ass. Wot not; know not; knows not. The one and the other; the two; the pair,
without exception of either..  As a substance for any noun of the neuter
gender; as, here is the book, take it home. corresponds Comparison; as, three
is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend
him. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but
sometimes of a larger number, for any one..  The pronoun of the second person,
in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or
persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. A maiden. To convey, as by riding;
to make or do by riding. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of
two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. Apposition;
connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. The capital
city of England. Ere; before; sooner than. As sign of the infinitive, to had
originally the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun,
and connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus,
ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do
my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost
constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no
prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject;
thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die for one's country is
noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the
design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to;
as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). A town in Berkshire, England.. 
As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains.
Frequent; common; repeated. connects a Any comprehensive group of animals or
plants including several subordinate related groups. Denoting relation to
place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people
of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. words A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. propositions, presenting a
The best part; that which is preferable. Denoting the agent, or person by
whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. Each of two; the one and
the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number.; as, Man; a male; any
male person; -- in this sense used substantively. Liberty; permission;
allowance. To apply the mind to books or learning. Collectively, the whole
body of rules relating to one subject, or emanating from one source; --
including usually the writings pertaining to them, and judicial proceedings
under them; as, divine law; English law; Roman law; the law of real property;
insurance law., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. A physician., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. The state of being divine; the nature or essence of
God; deity; godhead., Ere; before; sooner than. The chemical symbol for
helium. Contingency or liability; possibility or probability. To file or
inscribe upon the records of the land office the required particulars
concerning (a quantity of public land) in order to entitle a person to a right
of preeumlmption. Indicating insertion; as, to infuse more spirit or animation
into a composition. A company of men engaged in the same occupation; thus,
booksellers and publishers speak of the customs of the trade, and are
collectively designated as the trade.. From this time; in the future; as, a
week hence., Being within; included or inclosed in anything; contained;
interior; internal; as, the inside passengers of a stagecoach; inside
decoration. See Thee. limits, To understand; to comprehend., Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Hence, in
general, the bringing about of an effect, physical or moral, by a gradual
process; controlling power quietly exerted; agency, force, or tendency of any
kind which affects, modifies, or sways; as, the influence which the sun exerts
on animal and vegetable life; the influence of education on the mind; the
influence, according to astrologers, of the stars over affairs. In a general
sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as:; Wot not; know not;
knows not. Course of life; behavior; doings; ways. The part of the world not
encompassed by or under control of an organization or institution; as,
prisoners are not allowed to pass objects to persons on the outside; one may
not discuss company secretes with anyone on the outside. During; in the course
of.; Shorn; shaven. Past, out of the reach or sphere of; further than; greater
than; as, the patient was beyond medical aid; beyond one's strength.,
overstepping, In a very great degree; extremely; exceedingly., A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. See Thee. A liking; a
preference; inclination; -- usually in pl.; as, we all have likes and
dislikes.. circumstances A An elementary particle. To introduce a clause
employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate
nominative of a verb. marks an alternative; as, The pronoun of the second
person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person
or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Desire or wish, as in prayer,
imprecation, benediction, and the like. To tell; to declare. A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Liberty; permission;
allowance. To form characters, letters, or figures, as representative of
sounds or ideas; to express words and sentences by written signs., -- To
introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the
reason that, because. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The
pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case,
indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Liberty;
permission; allowance. To cash or to advance money for, as a bill or note.
Single in kind; the same; a common. Denoting reference to a thing; about;
concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of
many things. See Thee. things at The form of the possessive case of the
personal pronoun you. To take pleasure; to seek pursue pleasure; as, to go
pleasuring., The portion of a half-coupling fastened to the end of a hose. A
word used to express negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal. The one and
the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either..  As a substitute
for such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and
the like; as, how is it with the sick man? corresponds In a very general way,
and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs
with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or
passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any
number..  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and
objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of
blossoming; also, the hawthorn. To be borne in a carriage; as, to ride in a
coach, in a car, and the like. See Synonym, below. Either precedes two, or
more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative.
It is correlative to or. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency
toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being
regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a
trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. The capital city of England. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The
preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the
direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or
tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. A town in
Berkshire, England..  As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs,
or after a substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to
walk). Frequent; common; repeated. connects a Any comprehensive group of
animals or plants including several subordinate related groups. Denoting
possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the
apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of
heaven. words Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. propositions, presenting a Worthly of being chosen or preferred;
select; superior; precious; valuable. Denoting the agent, or person by whom,
or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. One of two; the one or the
other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for
any one.; as, Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used
substantively. The merrymaking of May Day. To consider attentively; to examine
closely; as, to study the work of nature. In morals: The will of God as the
rule for the disposition and conduct of all responsible beings toward him and
toward each other; a rule of living, conformable to righteousness; the rule of
action as obligatory on the conscience or moral nature., Ere; before; sooner
than. Intoxicating liquor; drink., Ere; before; sooner than. A pretended deity
of pagans; a false god., Ere; before; sooner than. Any one; the man or person;
-- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. Desire or
wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. To go into or
upon, as lands, and take actual possession of them. Indicating insertion; as,
to infuse more spirit or animation into a composition. Business of any kind;
matter of mutual consideration; affair; dealing.. conditions Denoting The
state or quality of being near; -- used in the various senses of the
adjective. Ere; before; sooner than. Space between two antagonists in
fencing., Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is
introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or. With reference to a
limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my
life. A small piece of metal cast lower than a face type, so as not to receive
the ink in printing, -- used to separate words or letters. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To appoint the
time for; to bring, begin, or perform at the proper season or time; as, he
timed his appearance rightly.; Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.; as, In the house;
in doors; as, the master is within. a A stone erected near a public road to
mark the distance of a league. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole;
belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this
little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the
company. See Thee. Formerly: (a) An inclosure which surrounded the mere
homestead or dwelling of the lord of the manor. [Obs.] (b) The whole of the
land which constituted the domain. [Obs.] (c) A collection of houses inclosed
by fences or walls.; In the inner or interior part of; inside of; not without;
as, within doors. an Certain prayers to be repeated at stated times of the
day, as matins and vespers. In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding
from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of
applications; as: By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. appointed To ascertain or record the time, duration, or rate of;
as, to time the speed of horses, or hours for workmen.. any Accompaniment; as,
she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. To produce as an
effect; to cause to exist.. conceived Denoting See Thee. agent, Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A parson; the
parish priest. Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the procession has
gone by; a bird flew by. The objective case of who.  See Who., Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A transaction or
occurrence; an event; a deed. Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the
procession has gone by; a bird flew by. A interrogative pronoun, used both
substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask
for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as,
which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route
he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What,
pron., 1., anything The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., Yellow
or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. It is done or agreed; let it be a
match or bargain; -- used elliptically.; Passing near; going past; past;
beyond; as, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by.. as limiting,
confining, A bright golden color, reflecting more light than any other except
white; the color of that part of the spectrum which is between the orange and
green. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, --
that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A
yellow color, like that of the metal; as, a flower tipped with gold. The hue
or color characteristic of good health and spirits; ruddy complexion., --
represented With reference to character, reach, scope, or influence considered
as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's favor. The process of
stretching or spreading metals as by hammering, or, as in forming wire from
rods or tubes and cups from sheet metal, by pulling them through dies. Ere;
before; sooner than. An impression from an engraved plate, block of wood, or
other material; a print. With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of;
with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by
fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force. In or to small extent,
quantity, or degree; little; slightly. dots. By that; by how much; by so much;
on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in
sin, the more difficult it is to reform. act Ere; before; sooner than. A
statement of events; a narrative. Denoting relation to place or time;
belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle
Ages; in the days of Herod. expending resources, In an especial manner;
chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree. Any article used as
a medium of payment in financial transactions, such as checks drawn on
checking accounts., Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she
has a husband to her mind. achieve rewards., Closely bound together;
undivided; united; constituting a whole. Denoting that from which anything
proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a
race of kings; he is of noble blood. One and one; twice one.; See Thee. Single
in kind; the same; a common. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. See Thee. Either; -- used with other or or for its
correlative (as either . . . or are now used).; -- Individually; after one's
own manner. used Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which,
anything is, or is done; by. One and one; twice one. things, The larger or
thicker end of anything; the blunt end, in distinction from the sharp end; as,
the butt of a rifle.  Formerly also spelled but.  See 2nd but, n. sense 2. At
times; at intervals; not always; now and then; occasionally. Denoting the
agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. a
larger That which admits of being counted or reckoned; a unit, or an aggregate
of units; a numerable aggregate or collection of individuals; an assemblage
made up of distinct things expressible by figures., Indicating the space or
time through which an action or state extends; hence, during; in or through
the space or time of. any Single in kind; the same; a common.. With reference
to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in difficulties; she stood in a
blaze of light. a Containing the total amount, number, etc.; comprising all
the parts; free from deficiency; all; total; entire; as, the whole earth; the
whole solar system; the whole army; the whole nation. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Having all the parts or
organs which belong to it or to the typical form; having calyx, corolla,
stamens, and pistil. Sort; kind; style; -- in this application sometimes
having the sense of a plural, sorts or kinds; as, all manners of people came
to the rally.; Without alloy or mixture; truly; sincerely.; In a complete
manner; fully.; In a perfect manner or degree; in or to perfection;
completely; wholly; thoroughly; faultlessly.. A An elementary particle. To
introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the
reason that, because. marks an alternative; as, The pronoun of the second
person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person
or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The merrymaking of May Day.
Rennet. See 3d Reed. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or
may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. Contingency or liability; possibility or probability. To set down, as
legible characters; to form the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any
material by a suitable instrument; as, to write the characters called letters;
to write figures., -- To introduce a clause employed as the object of the
preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in
the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation,
benediction, and the like. To cheat; to gull; to overreach. A symbol
representing a unit, as 1, or i. In a general sense, from, or out from;
proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety
of applications; as: See Thee. things at The form of the possessive case of
the personal pronoun you. That which pleases; a favor; a gratification., A
joint where the ends of two objects come squarely together without scarfing or
chamfering; -- also called butt joint. Shorn; shaven. As well; not only;
equally..  As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence,
pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or
referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John.
corresponds Addition; union; accumulation. Either precedes two, or more,
cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is
correlative to or..  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. The early part or springtime of life. To be supported in
motion; to rest. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two
things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. As sign of the
infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). The
capital city of England. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a
time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a
limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is
rising to wealth and honor. A town in Berkshire, England..  As an indefinite
nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains. Frequently; many
times; not seldom. connects a A parcel of rough diamonds of assorted
qualities. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. words Ere;
before; sooner than. propositions, presenting a Act of choosing; the voluntary
act of selecting or separating from two or more things that which is
preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring one thing to another;
election. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or
quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to
spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. Either
precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to
an alternative. It is correlative to or.; as, Man; a male; any male person; --
in this sense used substantively. The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called
from their time of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. A building or apartment
devoted to study or to literary work. the first five books of the bible,
called also Torah, Pentatech, or Law of Moses., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Hence, a similar object or
agency among other savages., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing
or engraving by small dots. A pretended deity of pagans; a false god., A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Any one; the
man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative
pronoun. The merrymaking of May Day. To file or inscribe upon the records of
the land office the required particulars concerning (a quantity of public
land) in order to entitle a person to a right of preeumlmption. Expressing
entrance, or a passing from the outside of a thing to its interior parts; --
following verbs expressing motion; as, come into the house; go into the
church; one stream falls or runs into another; water enters into the fine
vessels of plants. To barter, or to buy and sell; to be engaged in the
exchange, purchase, or sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or anything else; to
traffic; to bargain; to carry on commerce as a business.. Wot not; know not;
knows not. In its original and strict sense, out means from the interior of
something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in a position or
relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to in or into. The
something may be expressed after of, from, etc. (see Out of, below); or, if
not expressed, it is implied; as, he is out; or, he is out of the house,
office, business, etc.; he came out; or, he came out from the ship, meeting,
sect, party, etc.; In the house; in doors; as, the master is within.; Being
within; included or inclosed in anything; contained; interior; internal; as,
the inside passengers of a stagecoach; inside decoration.. With reference to a
whole which includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his
family; the first regiment in the army., A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. A word employed to connect a noun or a
pronoun, in an adjectival or adverbial sense, with some other word; a particle
used with a noun or pronoun (in English always in the objective case) to make
a phrase limiting some other word; -- so called because usually placed before
the word with which it is phrased; as, a bridge of iron; he comes from town;
it is good for food; he escaped by running., becomes an adverb Against. The
act of omitting; neglect or failure to do something required by propriety or
duty. In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to;
relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: Possessive
form of the pronoun it. See It. That which is put, or which may be regarded as
put, in the way of some of the senses; something visible or tangible and
persists for an appreciable time; as, he observed an object in the distance;
all the objects in sight; he touched a strange object in the dark., leaving As
an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive
used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). as By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Similar in general
appearance, structure, and habits, but living in different regions; -- said of
certain species and varieties. Denoting the material of which anything is
composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a
wreath of mist; a cup of water. an adverbial To express in words, or in
peculiar words; to call; to style., By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. Knit or woven together; close; firm.
indicating Something; thing; stuff. See Thee. omitted To offer in opposition
as a criminal charge or by way of accusation or reproach; to adduce as an
objection or adverse reason. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.;
as, The man or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender
is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender,
usually referring to a specified subject already indicated. takes With
reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last century;
in all my life. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. Position, as regards the conditions and circumstances of the
case. (As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc.. The fifth letter of the
English alphabet.., Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used
substantively. comprehends As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender;
as, here is the book, take it home. With reference to movement or tendency
toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to
put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in
God. The possessive of he; as, the book is his. Opinion; judgment; belief.);
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Republicans A fine for slaying a man; the money value set upon a man's
life; weregild. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened
in the last century; in all my life. (I, the ninth letter of the English
alphabet, takes its form from the Phoelignician, through the Latin and the
Greek. The Phoelignician letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original
value was nearly the same as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete.
Etymologically I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent,
beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. thornynne; E. dominion,
donjon, dungeon.. The fifth letter of the English alphabet.., A reeumlntrant
angle; a nook or corner. A special duty, trust, charge, or position, conferred
by authority and for a public purpose; a position of trust or authority; as,
an executive or judical office; a municipal office.); To inclose; to take in;
to harvest. at Denoting a person or thing conceived or spoken of indefinitely;
a certain. ldquoI am the sister of one Claudiordquo [Shak.], that is, of a
certain man named Claudio. The sense of hearing; the perception of sounds; the
power of discriminating between different tones; as, a nice ear for music; --
in the singular only. and To give out; to dispose of; to sell. at A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Not this, but the
contrary; opposite; as, the other side of a river. (In our old authors, I was
often used for ay (or aye), yes, which is pronounced nearly like it.. The
fifth letter of the English alphabet.., With reference to a limit of time; as,
in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. Ere; before;
sooner than. Indicating insertion; as, to infuse more spirit or animation into
a composition. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. To set on the head; as, to head a cask.); The possessive of he;
as, the book is his. A slope or declivity, as of a hill, considered as opposed
to another slope over the ridge. The first and third persons singular of the
verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he
was. With reference to a whole which includes or comprises the part spoken of;
as, the first in his family; the first regiment in the army. (The nominative
case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a speaker or
writer denotes himself.. The fifth letter of the English alphabet.., To
inclose; to take in; to harvest. See Thee. Successive course; opportunity
enjoyed by alternation with another or with others, or in due order; due
chance; alternate or incidental occasion; appropriate time. at By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. A part of a brick with
one whole end; a brickbat.); Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense
used substantively. A slender rod of cast lead, with or without grooves, used,
in casements and stained-glass windows, to hold together the panes or pieces
of glass. One who is in office; -- the opposite of out. (The nominative case
of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a speaker or writer
denotes himself.. The fifth letter of the English alphabet.., Denoting
inclusion; as, put these ideas into other words. By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Household affairs; domestic
concerns; particularly in the phrase to keep house. See below.).
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. To hold in possession or control; to own; as, he has a farm. a Partly;
in a measure. Ere; before; sooner than. Hence, one of a certain number of
equal portions into which any property or invested capital is divided; as, a
ship owned in ten shares.; Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was
flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist
to the prejudice of the state. To distribute; to communicate... See Withe. The
process of sending any matter, for inquiry in a cause, to a master or other
officer, in order that he may ascertain facts and report to the court. Effect;
end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a
war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. Of or
pertaining to physic, or the art of medicine; medicinal; curative; healing;
also, cathartic; purgative. The things which surround or environ; external or
attending circumstances or conditions., Of or pertaining to a particular
person; relating to, or affecting, an individual, or each of many individuals;
peculiar or proper to private concerns; not public or general; as, personal
comfort; personal desire. states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I, the ninth
letter of the English alphabet, takes its form from the Phoelignician, through
the Latin and the Greek. The Phoelignician letter was probably of Egyptian
origin. Its original value was nearly the same as that of the Italian I, or
long e as in mete. Etymologically I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as
in dint, dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. thornynne;
E. dominion, donjon, dungeon. am With reference to character, reach, scope, or
influence considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's favor. A
fluctuation of mind arising from defect of knowledge or evidence; uncertainty
of judgment or mind; unsettled state of opinion concerning the reality of an
event, or the truth of an assertion, etc.; hesitation.; By that; by how much;
by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Possibility of admission;
ability to admit; opportunity to act; fit occasion; as, to leave room for
hope. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. One who is in office; --
the opposite of out. A state of privacy; secrecy.; In a very general way, and
with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with
their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive
verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon
that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as,
these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To pass one's time;
to pass life or time in a certain manner, as to habits, conduct, or
circumstances; as, to live in ease or affluence; to live happily or usefully.
A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. To affright; to terrify; to drive away
or prevent approach of by fear.. A possessive pronoun, or a word in the
possessive case. The peculiar characteristics of an organism as a type of
others; also, the structure of the parts of an animal or plant. In a general
sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A word used instead of a noun
or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are
I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. The neuter pronoun of the third
person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and
having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them).. To perceive by mental
vision; to form an idea or conception of; to note with the mind; to observe;
to discern; to distinguish; to understand; to comprehend; to ascertain. As a
substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of
things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick man?. Distinguished; having
the difference marked; separated by a visible sign; marked out; specified.;
Unconnected; not united or associated; distinct; -- said of things that have
not been connected.; Wot not; know not; knows not. A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. Just mentioned, or just about to be
mentioned.; Different from that which, or the one who, has been specified; not
the same; not identical; additional; second of two.. applications, As a
Expressing, or apt to express, much; displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her
nature was demonstrative., In an especial manner; chiefly; particularly;
peculiarly; in an uncommon degree. at By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. The act of doing that which begins
anything; commencement of an action, state, or space of time; entrance into
being or upon a course; the first act, effort, or state of a succession of
acts or states. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or
impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of
their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. a Sense;
meaning; significance., The act of filling and finishing the joints in masonry
with mortar, cement, etc.; also, the material so used. The preposition to
primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a
place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without
arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To introduce a consequence,
result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or such, sometimes by that. Of
what sort or kind; what; what a; who. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. about Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they
engaged hand to hand. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on
Thursday. Recurring at regular times; not occasional; as, stated preaching;
stated business hours., bearing the author's name; as, a named source. 
Opposite of anonymous., Ere; before; sooner than. mentioned, Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. referring Effect;
end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a
war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. As a
demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a
person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a
demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has
said is true; those in the basket are good apples. A relative pronoun, used
esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with
reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following
noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to something which
has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of
persons. apparent A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or
may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. Suitably to one's condition, to the occasion, or to a proposed end or
use; suitably; abundantly; fully; adequately; thoroughly. of Know.; as, As a
numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc. An instrument for cutting or dividing
substances, as wood, iron, etc., consisting of a thin blade, or plate, of
steel, with a series of sharp teeth on the edge, which remove successive
portions of the material by cutting and tearing. As an indefinite object after
some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously as a verb; as,
to foot it (i. e., to walk). The first and third persons singular of the verb
be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. A
proper name of a man.. approaches Of some distinction; noteworthy;
influential; respectable; -- said of persons. The specific signification of in
is situation or place with respect to surrounding, environment, encompassment,
etc. It is used with verbs signifying being, resting, or moving within limits,
or within circumstances or conditions of any kind conceived of as limiting,
confining, or investing, either wholly or in part. In its different
applications, it approaches some of the meanings of, and sometimes is
interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and among. To reckon as one of
a collection or multitude. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. The extent or extension of a general conception, that
is, the number of species or individuals to which it may be applied; also, its
content or comprehension, that is, the number of its constituent qualities,
attributes, or relations.. Denoting A pass or en encounter; as, a passage at
arms. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving
behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting
out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or
i. Stately. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a
husband to her mind. another; Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.. With, as means,
way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or
agency of; as, a city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to
take by force. In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence
expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like.; Near to,
while passing; hence, from one to the other side of; past; as, to go by a
church. To what degree or extent, number or amount; in what proportion; by
what measure or quality. High in rank or position.; Out of the common path;
aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside,
secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding
notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely
used in composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment,
by-design, by-interest, etc. About the number, time, or quantity specified;
thereabouts; more or less; as, I will spend a week or so in the country; I
have read only a page or so. A thing uncommon, wonderful, or noticeable;
something considerable.; Occupied with; in the performance of; as, only three
officers are on duty; on a journey; on the job; on an assignment; on a case;
on the alert. As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a
demonstrative pronoun. account; -- used In time past; previously; already.
comparatives; as, A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. One who longs for anything. The plural nominative case of the pronoun
of the first person; the word with which a person in speaking or writing
denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the subject of an action
expressed by a verb. To be permanent or durable; to endure; to last. To
inclose; to take in; to harvest. To violate human rights, law, or propriety;
to commit an offense; to trespass; to transgress., See Thee. Greater in
number; exceeding in numbers; -- with the plural. Hard to manage or to please;
not easily wrought upon; austere; stubborn; as, a difficult person. As a
substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of
things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick man? The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. In a very general way, and with innumerable
varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or
indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a
following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for,
but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks
were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a
substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to
our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To return to a good state; to
amend or correct one's own character or habits; as, a man of settled habits of
vice will seldom reform.. meanings Denoting A particular portion constituting
a part of something continuous; esp., a portion of a book, speech, or musical
composition; a paragraph; a clause. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or
losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. A single person or
thing. Estate; possession. Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to
twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. another; Out of the
neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason
of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement
of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence,
separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates,
the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as
setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the
occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of
to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword
from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the
fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from
bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it
proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.., and
At times; at intervals; A word used to express negation, prohibition, denial,
or refusal. always; At a time contemporaneous with something spoken of or
contemplated; at a particular time referred to. and Soon afterward, or
immediately; next; afterward.; In an occasional manner; on occasion; at times,
as convenience requires or opportunity offers; not regularly.. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. The sixtieth part of a
second of time. The bodily form of a human being; body; outward appearance;
as, of comely person. Each; individual; as, to convey several parcels of land,
all and singular. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a
number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had
some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform.
Pertaining to, or constituting, the essential part or principles; as, the law
substantive. A word; a vocable. To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to
have existence., With reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he
traveled in Italy; castles in the air. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. Suggestive; representing the whole by a
part, as a fleet by a ship, a forest by a tree, etc. Manner; style; mode;
logical form; musical style; manner of action or being. See Mode which is the
preferable form)., To nominate to an ecclesiastical benefice; to offer to the
bishop or ordinary as a candidate for institution. Stretched tightly; strained
to stiffness; rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber.; as, Any one; the man or
person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. The
third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.; The man or male being (or
object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously
designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a
specified subject already indicated. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. a The male portion of the human race..  Figuratively: To have
intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to know; to understand; to discern; --
often followed by a preposition, as through, or into. To exist in a certain
manner or relation, -- whether as a reality or as a product of thought; to
exist as the subject of a certain predicate, that is, as having a certain
attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or as identical with what is
specified, -- a word or words for the predicate being annexed; as, to be
happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to
be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of
existence; that is the man.. Vocation; business; profession. Every; --
sometimes used interchangeably with every. Left, as opposed to right. The
specific signification of in is situation or place with respect to
surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying
being, resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or conditions
of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly
or in part. In its different applications, it approaches some of the meanings
of, and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and
among. alternate The person succeeding to rank or office; a successor or
heir.; as, By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. The sum of four units; four units or objects. Admitting of exchange or
mutual substitution. seasons. Character; condition of being; purpose subserved
or office filled. To be the sign of; to betoken; to signify; to mean.
association With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding,
possession, or seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of
her husband. imp. amp p. p. of Think., as Indicating the remoter and indirect
object of an act; the end or final cause with reference to which anything is,
acts, serves, or is done. The act of comparing; an examination of two or more
objects with the view of discovering the resemblances or differences; relative
estimate. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write,
-- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The
opposition of varied forms, colors, etc., which by such juxtaposition more
vividly express each other's peculiarities.., With reference to a whole which
includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the
first regiment in the army. See Thee. Not obvious or easily discovered;
obscure. One of the portions, equal or unequal, into which anything is
divided, or regarded as divided; something less than a whole; a number,
quantity, mass, or the like, regarded as going to make up, with others, a
larger number, quantity, mass, etc., whether actually separate or not; a
piece; a fragment; a fraction; a division; a member; a constituent.; In the
heart or mind; mentally; privately; secretly; as, he inwardly repines.; Hence:
Mentally; spiritually.., Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste;
she has a husband to her mind. See Thee. Adapted to the interior. Denoting the
agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by.; In
the limits or compass of; not further in length than; as, within five miles;
not longer in time than; as, within an hour; not exceeding in quantity; as,
expenses kept within one's income.. As a substance for any noun of the neuter
gender; as, here is the book, take it home. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. used With reference to a whole which includes or comprises the
part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the first regiment in the army. a
An individual, or group of individuals, of a species differing from the rest
in some one or more of the characteristics typical of the species, and capable
either of perpetuating itself for a period, or of being perpetuated by
artificial means; hence, a subdivision, or peculiar form, of a species.
Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as,
the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate
of heaven. applications., Indicating That which depends; anything dependent or
suspended; anything attached a subordinate to, or contingent on, something
else. Ere; before; sooner than. The act of relying, or the condition or
quality of being reliant; dependence; confidence; trust; repose of mind upon
what is deemed sufficient support or authority.; To denote simultaneous
happening, or immediate succession or consequence. The state of mind
characterized by one's reliance on himself, or his circumstances; a feeling of
self-sufficiency; such assurance as leads to a feeling of security;
self-reliance; -- often with self prefixed. With reference to a limit of time;
as, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life.; as, The
preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the
direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or
tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To hang in
suspense; to be pending; to be undetermined or undecided; as, a cause
depending in court. At the peril of, or for the safety of. a A shoot or bud of
a plant; a polyp or zooid of the compound Hydrozoa, Anthozoa, etc.; also, an
individual, in the narrowest sense, among the higher animals. Indicating that
on place of or instead of which anything acts or serves, or that to which a
substitute, an equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is offered or made;
instead of, or place of. assistance; Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to
his taste; she has a husband to her mind. To rest with confidence, as when
fully satisfied of the veracity, integrity, or ability of persons, or of the
certainty of facts or of evidence; to have confidence; to trust; to depend; --
with on, formerly also with in. in consequence of, or following; as, on the
ratification of the treaty, the armies were disbanded; start on the count of
three.; From this reason; therefore; -- as an inference or deduction.,
indicating See Thee. The pit of a theater. Ere; before; sooner than. To assume
and carry successfully, as the part of an actor; to represent or act; to
sustain; as, to support the character of King Lear. Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. anything;
as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by
a relative pronoun. To give or direct the disposal of by testament; to
bequeath; to devise; as, to will one's estate to a child; also, to order or
direct by testament; as, he willed that his nephew should have his watch.
Bestowal, fulfillment, or grant of what is promised. Forward, in progression;
onward; -- usually with a verb of motion; as, move on; go on; the beat goes
on. Fixed or stated; regular; determinate. conditions; Comparison; as, three
is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend
him. An early form of Better. To the account of; -- denoting imprecation or
invocation, or coming to, falling, or resting upon; as, on us be all the
blame; a curse on him. a A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus; especially,
the domestic horse (Equus caballus), which was domesticated in Egypt and Asia
at a very early period.  It has six broad molars, on each side of each jaw,
with six incisors, and two canine teeth, both above and below. The mares
usually have the canine teeth rudimentary or wanting. The horse differs from
the true asses, in having a long, flowing mane, and the tail bushy to the
base. Unlike the asses it has callosities, or chestnuts, on all its legs. The
horse excels in strength, speed, docility, courage, and nobleness of
character, and is used for drawing, carrying, bearing a rider, and like
purposes.; Wearing, or protected by, bases. Forward, in progression; onward;
-- usually with a verb of motion; as, move on; go on; the beat goes on. A
certain number or quantity. assumptions., at, In the time of; as long as the
action or existence of; as, during life; during the space of a year.; The
specific signification of in is situation or place with respect to
surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying
being, resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or conditions
of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly
or in part. In its different applications, it approaches some of the meanings
of, and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and
among. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. The succession of one to another in office or duty; order; turn.
Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a
league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time.., and among.; A Any
marked prominence or projecting part, especially of a bone; anapophysis.
Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and
equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the
city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. The act of executing; a carrying into effect
or to completion; performance; achievement; consummation; as, the execution of
a plan, a work, etc. With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of;
with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by
fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force. Of what sort or kind;
what; what a; who. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. lands and See Good, n., 3. Denoting reference to a thing; about;
concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of
many things. a One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to
creditor. are Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a
valued friend. and delivered Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency
toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being
regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a
trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. One who gives credit in business matters;
hence, one to whom money is due; -- correlative to debtor..; A determining The
make, cast, or appearance of the human face, and especially of any single part
of the face; a lineament. (pl.) The face, the countenance.; a Constituting
difference, or distinction from everything else; distinctive; peculiar;
characteristic. The integral part (whether positive or negative) of a
logarithm.; a the set of characteristics distinguishing an entity from related
entities..; A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or i. Denoting part of an
aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from
amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. a In Engler's system of plant
classification, a group of families showing certain structural or
morphological relationships. It corresponds to the cohort of some writers, and
to the order of many modern systematists. Denoting identity or equivalence; --
used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition;
as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. Disposed
toward adopting new methods in government or education, holding tolerant and
liberal ideas, and generally favoring improvement in civic life; -- of towns
and communities. steps Yet more; indefinitely more; above; over. Ere; before;
sooner than. Moving or extending from a higher to a lower place; tending
toward the earth or its center, or toward a lower level; declivous., With
reference to physical surrounding, personal states, etc., abstractly denoted;
as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live in fear. That which makes,
or helps to make, anything such as it is; anything belonging to a subject, or
predicable of it; distinguishing property, characteristic, or attribute;
peculiar power, capacity, or virtue; distinctive trait; as, the tones of a
flute differ from those of a violin in quality; the great quality of a
statesman., Degree of dignity, eminence, or excellence; position in civil or
social life; station; degree; grade; as, a writer of the first rank; a lawyer
of high rank., acquirement, and See Thee. To come near; to avoid with
difficulty; to escape narrowly; as, he liked to have been too late.  Cf. Had
like, under Like, a.; a A platform, often floating, serving as a kind of
wharf. One who is in office; -- the opposite of out. Regular or proportional
advance in increase or decrease of numbers; continued proportion,
arithmetical, geometrical, or harmonic.; The rate of ascent or descent;
gradient; deviation from a level surface to an inclined plane; -- usually
stated as so many feet per mile, or as one foot rise or fall in so many of
horizontal distance; as, a heavy grade; a grade of twenty feet per mile, or of
1 in 264.; The act or process of bringing to a certain grade.; as, degrees
Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is
done; by. Denoting one who in certain cases may assume the office or duties of
a superior; designating an officer or an office that is second in rank or
authority; as, vice president; vice agent; vice consul, etc. and A particular
moral excellence; as, the virtue of temperance, of charity, etc.; In a very
general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
advance In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along
with; as, come and sit by me. Not hasty; not precipitate; acting with
deliberation; tardy; inactive. degrees; Measure of advancement; quality;
extent; as, tastes differ in kind as well as in degree. Denoting identity or
equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the
relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the
Island of Cuba. The state of being compared; a relative estimate; also, a
state, quality, or relation, admitting of being compared; as, to bring a thing
into comparison with another; there is no comparison between them.. Denoting
To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently
preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. With, as means, way, process, etc.;
through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a
city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force. A
compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which,
whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take
which you will. a A living, self-conscious being, as distinct from an animal
or a thing; a moral agent; a human being; a man, woman, or child. A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A transaction
or occurrence; an event; a deed. The third person singular of the substantive
verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See
Be. actuated Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. motivated by an irresistable compulsion.; also, See Thee. The act
of rising; a rise; an ascent. Denoting relation to place or time; belonging
to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in
the days of Herod. a To set forth; to bring forward. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. action; Appointed or
required to arrive at a given time; as, the steamer was due yesterday.
Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to
hand.; as, The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but
always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an
antecedent expressed. Course; way; path; journey; direction. Denoting part of
an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of;
from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. The possessive case of the personal pronoun
they; as, their houses; their country. To hold as property; to have a legal or
rightful title to; to be the proprietor or possessor of; to possess; as, to
own a house. To be willing; to be inclined or disposed; to be pleased; to
wish; to desire.; Not any; not one; none; as, yes, we have no bananas; --
often used as a quantifier. The central, longitudinal framework of a flying
machine, to which are attached the planes or aeumlrocurves, passenger
accommodations, controlling and propelling apparatus, fuel tanks, etc.  Also
called fuselage. A vessel or case of tinned iron or of sheet metal, of various
forms, but usually cylindrical; as, a can of tomatoes; an oil can; a milk can.
To propose; to recommend; specifically, to propose formally for consideration
and determination, in a deliberative assembly; to submit, as a resolution to
be adopted; as, to move to adjourn. During; in the course of. The neuter
reflexive pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself; it stands by
itself.; Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used substantively.
imp. of Do. As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a
substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk).
Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. The quality or state of being necessary, unavoidable, or absolutely
requisite; inevitableness; indispensableness.. A To embellish. With, as means,
way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or
agency of; as, a city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to
take by force. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and
adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an
individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it?
which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take;
which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. See
Thee. Reputed character; reputation, good or bad; estimation; fame;
especially, illustrious character or fame; honorable estimation; distinction.
Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. a Complete; entire; not defective or imperfect; not broken or
fractured; unimpaired; uninjured; integral; as, a whole orange; the egg is
whole; the vessel is whole. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. To
throw or cast with a pushing motion ldquooverhand,rdquo the hand being raised
from the shoulder; a practice in athletics; as, to put the shot or weight.
Indicating the antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or
inducement accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of
anything; that on account of which a thing is or is done. a One of the
portions, equal or unequal, into which anything is divided, or regarded as
divided; something less than a whole; a number, quantity, mass, or the like,
regarded as going to make up, with others, a larger number, quantity, mass,
etc., whether actually separate or not; a piece; a fragment; a fraction; a
division; a member; a constituent., A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to
for that, in that, for the reason that, because. Denoting nearness or
distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time. a One of the portions, equal or unequal,
into which anything is divided, or regarded as divided; something less than a
whole; a number, quantity, mass, or the like, regarded as going to make up,
with others, a larger number, quantity, mass, etc., whether actually separate
or not; a piece; a fragment; a fraction; a division; a member; a constituent.
Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an act; the end or final cause
with reference to which anything is, acts, serves, or is done. a A regular
combination of parts; a system., Ere; before; sooner than. a Having certain or
distinct; determinate in extent or greatness; limited; fixed; as, definite
dimensions; a definite measure; a definite period or interval. The measure of
the relation between quantities or things of the same kind; that abstract
species of quantity which is capable of being expressed by figures; numerical
value. Indicating that instead of which something else controls in the
performing of an action, or that in spite of which anything is done, occurs,
or is; hence, equivalent to notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally
followed by all, aught, anything, etc. an Not definite; not limited, defined,
or specified; not explicit; not determined or fixed upon; not precise;
uncertain; vague; confused; obscure; as, an indefinite time, plan, etc..; A
Having little size, compared with other things of the same kind; little in
quantity or degree; diminutive; not large or extended in dimension; not great;
not much; inconsiderable; as, a small man; a small river. To furnish with, or
as with, a body; to produce in definite shape; to embody. suspended In the
inner or interior part of; inside of; not without; as, within doors. By that;
by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform.  The substance
of the body of a cell, as distinguished from the karyoplasma, or substance of
the nucleus. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or
appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent
of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. a A jar of vessel, or a
division of a compound vessel, for holding the exciting fluid of a battery..
as Separated by intervals greater than usual. A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or
corner. affection Ere; before; sooner than. A following; a body of adherents;
as, the Roman Catholic obedience, or the whole body of persons who submit to
the authority of the pope.; at a Relative space, between troops in ranks,
measured from front to rear; -- contrasted with interval, which is measured
from right to left., In a manner calculated to serve as the basis of action;
according to the usual course of things and human judgment; according to
reason and probability. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. In a spiritual manner; with purity of spirit; like a
spirit.; the twentieth letter of the English alphabet, is a nonvocal
consonant. With the letter h it forms the digraph th, which has two distinct
sounds, as in thin, then. See Guide to Pronunciation, sectsect262-264, and
also sectsect153, 156, 169, 172, 176, 178-180. The quality of being an enemy;
hostile or unfriendly disposition. See Withe.; alienated. as; as, See Thee.
Relating to, or containing, more than one; designating two or more; as, a
plural word. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that
which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a
cup of water. Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used
substantively., A woman; a female; -- used substantively., A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. As an indefinite object
after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously as a
verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk).. The plural of he, she, or it. They is
never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers
to persons without an antecedent expressed. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. Not ever; not at any time; at no time, whether past, present, or
future. used adjectively, A limit; a bound; a goal; the extreme bound; the
end. always as a A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the
repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he,
she, it, we, ye, and they. Belonging to one; one's own; individual., and At
times; at intervals; not always; now and then; occasionally. refers As sign of
the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8).
persons Out of the limits of; out of reach of; beyond. an antecedent
Communicated in words.. To repair; to extend; to increase; to strengthen; to
equip.. amp the sixteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a nonvocal
consonant whose form and value come from the Latin, into which language the
letter was brought, through the ancient Greek, from the Phoelignician, its
probable origin being Egyptian.  Etymologically P is most closely related to
b, f, and v; as hobble, hopple; father, paternal; recipient, receive. See B,
F, and M.. the sixteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a nonvocal
consonant whose form and value come from the Latin, into which language the
letter was brought, through the ancient Greek, from the Phoelignician, its
probable origin being Egyptian.  Etymologically P is most closely related to
b, f, and v; as hobble, hopple; father, paternal; recipient, receive. See B,
F, and M.. Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected
with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod.
To measure., Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged
hand to hand. Determined extent, not to be exceeded; limit; allotted share, as
of action, influence, ability, or the like; due proportion.. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. persons Seeming to be
capable of speech; hence, lifelike; as, a speaking likeness., regarded as an
To set before or against; to bring into opposition; to oppose.; An emphasized
form of the pronoun of the first person plural; -- used as a subject, usually
with we; also, alone in the predicate, in the nominative or the objective
case.; -- A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
Of or pertaining to an object; contained in, or having the nature or position
of, an object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- an epithet applied to whatever
is exterior to the mind, or which is simply an object of thought or feeling,
as opposed to being related to thoughts of feelings, and opposed to
subjective. To strip the skin from; as, to case a box. Denoting nearness or
distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time. The plural nominative case of the
pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in speaking or
writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the subject of an
action expressed by a verb.. To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by
the proper organs; to possess or employ the sense of vision; as, he sees
distinctly. The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the
word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of
which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb..
Accompaniment; as, This or that female; the woman understood or referred to;
the animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine, which was
spoken of. imp. of Sing. In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties
of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. Belonging or pertaining to him; --
used as a pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers
are ready; formerly used also for its, but this use is now obsolete. A
stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger,
and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of
catgut, -- played upon with the fingers.; The plural of he, she, or it. They
is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes
refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. danced Extent; limit;
degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of
three hundred. See Thee. Harmony; an accordant combination of simultaneous
tones. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. a Soft; -- a
direction to the performer to execute a certain passage softly, and with
diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.). With, as means, way, process, etc.;
through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a
city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force. As an
adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is
followed by a noun.; Used in specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a cabin
twenty feet by forty. For what reason; from what cause. Great in quantity;
long in duration; as, much rain has fallen; much time.; Near to, while
passing; hence, from one to the other side of; past; as, to go by a church. In
like manner or degree; in the same way; thus; for like reason; whith equal
reason; -- used correlatively, following as, to denote comparison or
resemblance; sometimes, also, following inasmuch as. A great quantity; a great
deal; also, an indefinite quantity; as, you have as much as I.; By virtue of;
with the pledge of; -- denoting a pledge or engagement, and put before the
thing pledged; as, he affirmed or promised on his word, or on his honor. As a
demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a
person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a
demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has
said is true; those in the basket are good apples. account; -- used Earlier;
sooner than; until then. comparatives; as, A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. One who longs for anything. The plural
nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a
person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one,
as the subject of an action expressed by a verb. To carry onward or extend; to
prolong or produce; to add to or draw out in length. With reference to space
or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the air. To
violate human rights, law, or propriety; to commit an offense; to trespass; to
transgress., See Thee. In addition; further; besides; again. Hard to do or to
make; beset with difficulty; attended with labor, trouble, or pains; not easy;
arduous. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it
rains. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. To return to a good state; to amend or correct one's own
character or habits; as, a man of settled habits of vice will seldom reform..
In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish,
or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. A relative pronoun, used
esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with
reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following
noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to something which
has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of
persons. admits During; in the course of. Existing. counted Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. reckoned; a A
single thing, as a magnitude or number, regarded as an undivided whole., Ere;
before; sooner than. an aggregate Denoting that by which a person or thing is
actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as,
they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. units; a Capable of being numbered or counted. aggregate Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The act of
inferring or concluding from premises or observed facts; also, that which is
inferred. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin,
source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble
blood. individuals; an assemblage See Mad, n. Inclining up; tending or going
up; upward; as, an up look; an up grade; the up train. Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. Not identical;
different; individual. things Capable of being expressed, squeezed out, shown,
represented, or uttered. Near; in the neighborhood; present; as, there was no
person by at the time. figures. Denoting The state or quality of being near;
-- used in the various senses of the adjective. Ere; before; sooner than. To
outstrip by as much as a distance (see Distance, n., 3); to leave far behind;
to surpass greatly., Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or
phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or. With
privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin;
as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. To walk;
to rove; to roam. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or
may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. To appoint the time for; to bring, begin, or perform at the proper
season or time; as, he timed his appearance rightly.; Out of the neighborhood
of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by
aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action,
being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation,
etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of
space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.; as, In the inner
part; inwardly; internally. a To unite in a league or confederacy; to combine
for mutual support; to confederate. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole;
belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this
little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the
company. See Thee. A township; the whole territory within certain limits, less
than those of a country.; In the house; in doors; as, the master is within. an
The time of the day, as expressed in hours and minutes, and indicated by a
timepiece; as, what is the hour? At what hour shall we meet? Denoting nearness
or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. appointed The period at which any definite
event occurred, or person lived; age; period; era; as, the Spanish Armada was
destroyed in the time of Queen Elizabeth; -- often in the plural; as, ancient
times; modern times.. A A visible sign or representation of an idea; anything
which suggests an idea or quality, or another thing, as by resemblance or by
convention; an emblem; a representation; a type; a figure; as, the lion is the
symbol of courage; the lamb is the symbol of meekness or patience.
representing One more than two; two and one. units, as 3 A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. iii. A The distribution of
a discourse into parts; a part so distinguished. In a general sense, from, or
out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a
variety of applications; as: a The inhabitants or people of a state or a
region; the populace; the public. Hence: (a) One's constituents. (b) The whole
body of the electors of state; as, to dissolve Parliament and appeal to the
country. To inclose; to take in; to harvest. England, supposed The preposition
to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a
place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without
arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To put in an awkward position;
to have the advantage of; as, that is where he had him. At first; at the
origin; at the time of formation or costruction; as, a book originally written
by another hand. contained a The product of ten multiplied by ten, or the
number of ten times ten; a collection or sum, consisting of ten times ten
units or objects; five score. Also, a symbol representing one hundred units,
as 100 or C. families, Ere; before; sooner than. freemen.. Addition; A joint
or other connection uniting parts of machinery, or the like, as the elastic
pipe of a tender connecting it with the feed pipe of a locomotive engine;
especially, a pipe fitting for connecting pipes, or pipes and fittings, in
such a way as to facilitate disconnection.; accumulation. Comparison; as,
three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will
offend him. Being in a state of ignition; burning; having active properties;
as, a live coal; live embers.; Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to
twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. To hold, regard, or
esteem. That which imparts or excites spirit or vigor; that upon which
enjoyment or success depends; as, he was the life of the company, or of the
enterprise. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. See Thee. functions Denoting reference to a thing; about;
concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of
many things. The quality or state of being vital; the principle of life; vital
force; animation; as, the vitality of eggs or vegetable seeds; the vitality of
an enterprise.; as, A man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and
corresponding to the present indefinite one or they. To be able to do; to have
power or influence. Wot not; know not; knows not. To be manifest in any
manner; to continue to be; as, great evils existed in his reign. Not out;
within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its
object, leaving it as the representative of an adverbial phrase, the context
indicating what the omitted object is; as, he takes in the situation (i. e.,
he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in
at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in
(i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). The
limpidity and luster of a precious stone, especially a diamond; as, a diamond
of the first water, that is, perfectly pure and transparent. Hence, of the
first water, that is, of the first excellence., A negative connective or
particle, introducing the second member or clause of a negative proposition,
following neither, or not, in the first member or clause (as or in affirmative
propositions follows either).  Nor is also used sometimes in the first member
for neither, and sometimes the neither is omitted and implied by the use of
nor. fishes At the peril of, or for the safety of. The lap of the strakes in a
clinker-built boat; the lap of plates in an iron vessel; -- called also
landing.. Being a single unit, or entire being or thing, and no more; not
multifold; single; individual. One; any; one. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. To inclose; to take in; to harvest. The apartments or outhouses
in which the domestics discharge the duties attached to the service of a
house, as kitchens, pantries, stables, etc.; -- By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Placed directly in front of
another part or organ, as a stamen which stands before a petal. Denoting
relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens;
the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. To come or go out; to get
out or away; to become public.. a Not failing; not liable to fail;
inexhaustible; certain; sure.; Incapable of error in defining doctrines
touching faith or morals. See Papal infallibility, under Infallibility.. Fixed
or stated; regular; determinate. Measure of advancement; quality; extent; as,
tastes differ in kind as well as in degree. Ere; before; sooner than. The
contents of a vessel by which quantity is measured; a quantity determined by a
standard; a stated or limited quantity or amount.; as, The neuter pronoun of
the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine
she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them). The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Not out; within; inside. In, the
preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the
representative of an adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted
object is; as, he takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his
mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at
the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at
the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). a Mode of action; way of
performing or effecting anything; method; style; form; fashion. Performed;
executed; finished. already. Before; sooner than.; In advance.; In the western
United States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to
settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first
settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing
prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair
advantage. Then. See Then.. The process of sending any matter, for inquiry in
a cause, to a master or other officer, in order that he may ascertain facts
and report to the court.; An expression of respect of deference; regards; as,
to send one's respects to another.; Attention of the mind with a feeling of
interest; observation; heed; notice.., -- Of what sort or kind; what; what a;
who. (Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within
a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. One and one; twice
one.); A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or
clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a
sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference,
however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and
genders, and was formerly used of persons. A symbol representing a unit, as 1,
or i. (Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is,
or is done; by. The sum of one and one; the number next greater than one, and
next less than three; two units or objects.); -- used In the form of, or by
means of, a question; in an interrogative manner. and In a relative manner; in
relation or respect to something else; not absolutely.. as a As a conjunction,
that retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun. A relative pronoun,
used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with
reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following
noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to something which
has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of
persons. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Royal; regal;
kingly.; an actual The state of existing or being; actual possession of being;
continuance in being; as, the existence of body and of soul in union; the
separate existence of the soul; immortal existence.; As a demonstrative
pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing
previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a demonstrative,
may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has said is true;
those in the basket are good apples. A compound relative or indefinite
pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the .
. . which, and the like; as, take which you will. The third person singular of
the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he
is a man.  See Be. A word used to express negation, prohibition, denial, or
refusal. A mental image formed by the action of the imagination as a faculty;
a conception; a notion., Fictitious literature; comprehensively, all works of
imagination; specifically, novels and romances., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. That which is pretended;
false, deceptive, or hypocritical show, argument, or reason; pretext; feint.;
To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the
reason that, because. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. 3d pers. sing.
pres. of Have. Unbiased; unprejudiced; fair; uninfluenced by personal feelings
or personal interests; considering only the facts of a situation unrelated to
the observer; -- of judgments, opinions, evaluations, conclusions, reasoning
processes. Continued or repeated manifestation; occurrence, as of events of
any kind; as, the existence of a calamity or of a state of war., and The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Wot not; know not; knows not. Purely;
unmixedly; absolutely. an A general notion, or a conception formed by
generalization.. Sensational; -- said of some newspapers, their makers, etc.;
as, yellow journal, journalism, etc. Ere; before; sooner than. A metallic
element of atomic number 79, constituting the most precious metal used as a
common commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristic yellow color, is
one of the heaviest substances known (specific gravity 19.32), is soft, and
very malleable and ductile. It is quite unalterable by heat (melting point
1064.4deg C), moisture, and most corrosive agents, and therefore well suited
for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au (Aurum). Atomic weight 196.97. To
acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to blush., -- represented
With reference to a whole which includes or comprises the part spoken of; as,
the first in his family; the first regiment in the army. The act of pulling,
or attracting. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. An impression from an engraved plate, block of wood, or other material;
a print. Against. Not loudly; faintly; timidly. dots. as a Anything To
introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the
reason that, because. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. produced,
In case; if; -- used to introduce the first or two or more alternative
clauses, the other or others being connected by or, or by or whether. When the
second of two alternatives is the simple negative of the first it is sometimes
only indicated by the particle not or no after the correlative, and sometimes
it is omitted entirely as being distinctly implied in the whether of the
first. as By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. That which results; the conclusion or end to which any course or
condition of things leads, or which is obtained by any process or operation;
consequence or effect; as, the result of a course of action; the result of a
mathematical operation. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name
or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. Origination by
some process, mathematical, chemical, or vital; production; formation; as, the
generation of sounds, of gases, of curves, etc., That which has grown or is
growing; anything produced; product; consequence; effect; result., To be in
travail; to suffer the pangs of childbirth; to be in labor., Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Meditation;
serious consideration., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read
or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but
not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Against. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. The act or process of operating; agency; the
exertion of power, physical, mechanical, or moral. Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. Not having
will or the power of choice. causes; as, By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. products Denoting passage from one state
to another; from. See Thee. To give token; to savor., A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Denoting identity or
equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the
relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the
Island of Cuba. See Thee. The term or tenure of a lease of land for
cultivation; a leasehold.; By that; by how much; by so much; on that account;
-- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. products Denoting the material of which anything is
composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a
wreath of mist; a cup of water. manufactures; A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. products During; in the course of. By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The
anterior or cephalic ganglion in insects and other invertebrates.. Denoting To
introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the
reason that, because. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. A compound relative
or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which,
those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will. anything
That which comes forth or results; effect; yield; issue; product; sum accruing
from a sale, etc.; indicating The first existence or beginning of anything;
the birth., The rising from the ground, or beginning, of a stream of water or
the like; a spring; a fountain., Inclination downward; a descending way;
inclined or sloping surface; declivity; slope; as, a steep descent., and By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. That
which is equal or similar to another; the counterpart; an exact resemblance; a
copy.; as, Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually
followed by a relative pronoun. The third person singular of the substantive
verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See
Be. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a
league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. a A game, match,
etc., open only to losers in early stages of contests. Denoting relation to
place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people
of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. kings; Man; a male; any male person;
-- in this sense used substantively. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected
with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod.
Of exalted rank; of or pertaining to the nobility; distinguished from the
masses by birth, station, or title; highborn; as, noble blood; a noble
personage. Temper of mind; disposition; state of the passions; -- as if the
blood were the seat of emotions.. A Same as Little go. See under Little, a.
Measure of advancement; quality; extent; as, tastes differ in kind as well as
in degree. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. The relative duration of a tone.; a To make of no importance; to
treat as a trifle.; as, a A small degree or quantity; a trifle; as, a thought
longer; a thought better. One who longs for anything.; a A small degree or
quantity; a trifle; as, a thought longer; a thought better. One who has a
claim to precedence; a superior, as in merit, social standing, etc.; --
usually in the plural..; With reference to character, reach, scope, or
influence considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's favor.
The populace; the common people; the majority of people, or of a community.
phrases, and With reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or
environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground;
to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. the process of
bringing ideas or events together in memory or imagination. With denotes or
expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association,
connection, or the like. Consisting of a great number; numerous; not few.
Different from that which, or the one who, has been specified; not the same;
not identical; additional; second of two. words, Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. a A pregnant woman. That which is meant
or intended; intent; purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was
apparent., Ere; before; sooner than. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. used In the form of an ellipse.. Character; condition of being;
purpose subserved or office filled. To exist actually, or in the world of
fact; to have existence. as a A doing, making, or preparing. and Shorn;
shaven. as a Same as Mood.; Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they
danced to the music of a piano. To put in an awkward position; to have the
advantage of; as, that is where he had him. an actual A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Having an assignable
arithmetical or numerical value or meaning; not imaginary. Existence, as
opposed to nonexistence; state or sphere of existence., In case; if; -- used
to introduce the first or two or more alternative clauses, the other or others
being connected by or, or by or whether. When the second of two alternatives
is the simple negative of the first it is sometimes only indicated by the
particle not or no after the correlative, and sometimes it is omitted entirely
as being distinctly implied in the whether of the first. Pertaining to, or
affecting, the physical nature of man, as distinguished from the mental or
moral nature; relating to the bodily wants, interests, and comforts; as,
material well-being; material comforts. Yellow or gold color, -- represented
in drawing or engraving by small dots. Not lay or temporal; relating to sacred
things; ecclesiastical; as, the spiritual functions of the clergy; lords
spiritual and temporal; a spiritual corporation.. as Passing near; going past;
past; beyond; as, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by. To introduce a
consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or such, sometimes
by that.; In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to;
along with; as, come and sit by me. To what degree or extent, number or
amount; in what proportion; by what measure or quality. High in rank or
position.; With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of;
through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by fire; profit
is made by commerce; to take by force. In like manner or degree; in the same
way; thus; for like reason; whith equal reason; -- used correlatively,
following as, to denote comparison or resemblance; sometimes, also, following
inasmuch as. A great quantity; a great deal; also, an indefinite quantity; as,
you have as much as I.; The general signification of on is situation, motion,
or condition with respect to contact or support beneath As a conjunction, that
retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun. account; -- used
Earlier; sooner than; until then. comparatives; as, See Thee. One who longs
for anything. The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person;
the word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or
company of which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb.
To unite; to connect. With reference to physical surrounding, personal states,
etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live
in fear. A sin offering; a sacrifice for sin., A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. Greater in number; exceeding in numbers;
-- with the plural. Hard to manage or to please; not easily wrought upon;
austere; stubborn; as, a difficult person. The neuter pronoun of the third
person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and
having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them). The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was
flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist
to the prejudice of the state. To put into a new and improved form or
condition; to restore to a former good state, or bring from bad to good; to
change from worse to better; to amend; to correct; as, to reform a profligate
man; to reform corrupt manners or morals.. The preposition to primarily
indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or
thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival;
movement toward; -- opposed to from. To bring about; to bring forward; to be
the cause or agent of; to effect, do, perform, or execute; -- often used with
a noun to form a phrase equivalent to the simple verb that corresponds to such
noun; as, to make complaint, for to complain; to make record of, for to
record; to make abode, for to abide, etc. Fitted or disposed to subserve;
useful in an inferior capacity; serving to promote some end; subordinate;
hence, servile, truckling.. Denoting By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. Pertaining to the matter, as opposed to the
form, of a thing. See Matter. In a general sense, from, or out from;
proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety
of applications; as: A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an
antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified
or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally
involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded). It is used
in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons. anything The
third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Free from agitation; calm;
sedate; quiet; tranquil; self-possessed., Ere; before; sooner than. To
introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the
subject or predicate nominative of a verb. Of what sort or kind; what; what a;
who. As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book,
take it home. contains; as, a To place on a royal seat; to enthrone. Denoting
relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens;
the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. A metallic element of
atomic number 79, constituting the most precious metal used as a common
commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristic yellow color, is one of
the heaviest substances known (specific gravity 19.32), is soft, and very
malleable and ductile. It is quite unalterable by heat (melting point
1064.4deg C), moisture, and most corrosive agents, and therefore well suited
for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au (Aurum). Atomic weight 196.97.; a
One of the end bars by which the lay of a hand loom is suspended. Denoting
relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens;
the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. A piece of steel for
striking sparks from flint.; a Something twisted, intertwined, or curled; as,
a wreath of smoke; a wreath of flowers. During; in the course of. Hence,
anything which dims or darkens, and obscures or intercepts vision.; a That
which is to be received or indured; that which is allotted to one; a portion.
Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the
source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no
body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. A wavy, lustrous pattern or
decoration such as is imparted to linen, silk, metals, etc.  See Water, v. t.,
3, Damask, v. t., and Damaskeen.. a Not failing; not liable to fail;
inexhaustible; certain; sure.; Not fallible; not capable of erring; entirely
exempt from liability to mistake; unerring; inerrable.. A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A brief remark or observation;
an expression; a phrase, clause, or short sentence. Ere; before; sooner than.
words With reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or
environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground;
to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. a A statement in
terms of a truth to be demonstrated, or of an operation to be performed. A
compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which,
whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take
which you will. To make known the opinions or feelings of; to declare what is
in the mind of; to show (one's self); to cause to appear; -- used reflexively.
Used adjectively, equivalent to the . . . which; the sort or kind of . . .
which; rarely, the . . . on, or at, which. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. affirmed Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or
connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days
of Herod. See Thee. The principal theme, or leading thought or phrase, on
which a composition or a movement is based.., As a Consisting of eulogy or of
invective. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of
it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye,
and they. (pl. The plural of that. See That.), In an elliptical sentence to
introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise,
indignation, or the like. usually points Expressing impatience, anger, a
desire to be rid of; -- with the force of command; go out; begone; away; off.,
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
refers Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband
to her mind., a A living, self-conscious being, as distinct from an animal or
a thing; a moral agent; a human being; a man, woman, or child. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A diminutive or
slighted object; any object viewed as merely existing; -- often used in pity
or contempt. Beforehand; antecedently; as, a plan previously formed.
mentioned, Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. supposed Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far
as; as, they met us to the number of three hundred. To take place; to happen;
as, the meeting was on Thursday. imp. amp p. p. of Understand.. In an
elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a
cause of surprise, indignation, or the like., as a A demonstrative pronoun;
as, ldquothisrdquo and ldquothatrdquo are demonstratives., The flowers of the
hawthorn; -- so called from their time of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. To
cause to be preceded; to preface; to introduce; -- used with by or with before
the instrumental object. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. A word used as the designation or appellation of a creature or
thing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive. Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. A compound
relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that
which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will. As
a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it
home. refers; as, As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a
demonstrative pronoun. A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an
antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified
or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally
involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded). It is used
in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons. Man; a male; any
male person; -- in this sense used substantively. 3d pers. sing. pres. of
Have. Before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used
chiefly in legal style. The third person singular of the substantive verb be,
in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Steady
in adhering to friends, to promises, to a prince, or the like; unwavering;
faithful; loyal; not false, fickle, or perfidious; as, a true friend; a wife
true to her husband; an officer true to his charge.; The plural of that. See
That. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the
last century; in all my life. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. A vessel made of osiers or other twigs, cane,
rushes, splints, or other flexible material, interwoven. are Not blemished or
impeached; fair; honorable; unsullied; as in the phrases a good name, a good
report, good repute, etc. apples. See Thee. The third tone of the scale; the
mediant. A shoot or bud of a plant; a polyp or zooid of the compound Hydrozoa,
Anthozoa, etc.; also, an individual, in the narrowest sense, among the higher
animals. An individual instance; a particular. Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Pertaining to, or
constituting, the essential part or principles; as, the law substantive. A
word which affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of
speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action. To signify; to
represent or symbolize; to answer to., One who is in office; -- the opposite
of out. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
The indicative mood. Temper of mind; temporary state of the mind in regard to
passion or feeling; humor; as, a melancholy mood; a suppliant mood., To bring
or introduce into the presence of some one, especially of a superior; to
introduce formally; to offer for acquaintance; as, to present an envoy to the
king; (with the reciprocal pronoun) to come into the presence of a superior.
One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary
words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified; the
modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.; as, The man or
male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned),
previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to
a specified subject already indicated. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be.; Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually
followed by a relative pronoun. The third person singular of the substantive
verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See
Be. a The human race; mankind..  The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the
jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York. To exist actually, or in
the world of fact; to have existence.., as To invest with property.; See Good,
n., 3.; Settled condition or form of existence; state; condition or
circumstances of life or of any person; situation.. a Not failing; not liable
to fail; inexhaustible; certain; sure.; Incapable of error in defining
doctrines touching faith or morals. See Papal infallibility, under
Infallibility.. attribute, Rather than.; In advance.; In the western United
States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to
settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first
settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing
prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair
advantage. A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and
adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other,
otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the
nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the
objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a
preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually
introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want.. as
As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to,
a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as
a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he
has said is true; those in the basket are good apples. A relative pronoun,
used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with
reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following
noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to something which
has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of
persons. belongs Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a
time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a
limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is
rising to wealth and honor. To cause to become one; to gather into a single
whole; to unite; to assimilite.; As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was
that frightened he could say nothing. A relative pronoun, used esp. in
referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to
what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause
(generally involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded).
It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons.
pertains Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand
to hand. A single unit; as, one is the base of all numbers.; From this reason;
therefore; -- as an inference or deduction., See Good, n., 3. A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. effects. Degree; measure;
proportion.; The space or thing defined by limits.; Grade or rank to which
scholars are admitted by a college or university, in recognition of their
attainments; also, (informal) the diploma provided by an educational
institution attesting to the achievement of that rank; as, the degree of
bachelor of arts, master, doctor, etc.; to hang one's degrees on the office
wall. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. That which is
comprehended or inclosed within narrow limits; a summary; an epitome.;
Something that is included. as Remote in affection or obedience; at a
distance, morally or spiritually; t enmity with; alienated. as; as, The plural
of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun
proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. imp.
amp p. p. of Mete, to measure. The persons speaking, regarded as an object;
ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. The preposition to primarily
indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or
thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival;
movement toward; -- opposed to from. See Thee. A collection of many
individuals; a numerous assemblage; a multitude; many. Denoting that from
which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as,
he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. The number greater by a unit
than two; three units or objects. Ten times ten; five score; as, a hundred
dollars.. a Stable; non-volatile. Ere; before; sooner than. Recurring at
regular times; not occasional; as, stated preaching; stated business hours.;
Conformed to a rule; agreeable to an established rule, law, principle, or
type, or to established customary forms; normal; symmetrical; as, a regular
verse in poetry; a regular piece of music; a regular verb; regular practice of
law or medicine; a regular building.; Determined or resolved upon.. Accord;
adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. To
associate one's self to; to be or become connected with; to league one's self
with; to unite with; as, to join a party; to join the church. Ere; before;
sooner than. associate To denote a connection of friendship, support,
alliance, assistance, countenance, etc.; hence, on the side of. others, esp.
To denote association in thought, as for comparison or contrast. others In a
general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: See Thee. Not different
or other; not another or others; identical; unchanged. Gentle; tractable;
easily governed; as, a horse kind in harness. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A component part of a
compound medicine; a simple.; Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his
taste; she has a husband to her mind. agree., A A crumb or little piece of
consecrated host. To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or
might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. marks an
alternative; as, The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. Instructed
or knowing by reading; versed in books; learned. Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. An auxiliary verb
qualifying the meaning of another verb, To impress durably; to imprint; to
engrave; as, truth written on the heart., -- As adverb: To such a degree; so;
as, he was that frightened he could say nothing. The third person singular of
the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he
is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative,
dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See
the Note under Ye. The merrymaking of May Day. To place; to put. Single;
unmarried. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything
is, or is done; by. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. things at The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun
you. To give or afford pleasure to; to please; to gratify., The hut or shelter
of the person who attends to the targets in rifle practice. Wot not; know not;
knows not. As well; not only; equally..  As a demonstrative, especially at the
beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named,
or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it
was John. corresponds Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they
engaged hand to hand. Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly,
also, each of any number..  The pronoun of the second person, in the
nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons
addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The fifth month of the year, containing
thirty-one days. The act of riding; an excursion on horseback or in a vehicle.
Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is
introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or. Addition; union;
accumulation. The capital city of England. Ere; before; sooner than. As sign
of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). A
town in Berkshire, England..  As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning
of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or
mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was
John. Frequent; common; repeated. connects a Any comprehensive group of
animals or plants including several subordinate related groups. Denoting part
of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of;
from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. words A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. propositions, presenting a The best part; that
which is preferable. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or
that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of
mist; a cup of water. Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly,
also, each of any number.; as, The man or male being (or object personified to
which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of
the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already
indicated. Liberty; permission; allowance. A piece for special practice. See
Etude. Collectively, the whole body of rules relating to one subject, or
emanating from one source; -- including usually the writings pertaining to
them, and judicial proceedings under them; as, divine law; English law; Roman
law; the law of real property; insurance law., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To give medicine to; to
affect as a medicine does; to remedy; to cure., A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Something divine or
superhuman; supernatural power or virtue; something which inspires awe.,
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
The man or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is
assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually
referring to a specified subject already indicated. The fifth month of the
year, containing thirty-one days. To engage in; to become occupied with; as,
to enter the legal profession, the book trade, etc. Indicating insertion; as,
to infuse more spirit or animation into a composition. Specifically: The act
or business of exchanging commodities by barter, or by buying and selling for
money; commerce; traffic; barter.. as With reference to a limit of time; as,
in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. The art and
practice of conducting negotiations between nations (particularly in securing
treaties), including the methods and forms usually employed. (esp. The
specific signification of in is situation or place with respect to
surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying
being, resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or conditions
of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly
or in part. In its different applications, it approaches some of the meanings
of, and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and
among. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
Established method of expression or practice; fixed way of proceeding;
conventional or stated scheme; formula; as, a form of prayer. In diplomacy
(esp. in the form identic), precisely agreeing in sentiment or opinion and
form or manner of expression; -- applied to concerted action or language which
is used by two or more governments in treating with another government.),
precisely agreeing A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. Hence, generally, a
decision of the mind formed by deliberation or reasoning; thought; opinion;
notion; judgment; as, to express one's sentiments on a subject. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Favorable
estimation; hence, consideration; reputation; fame; public sentiment or
esteem. and A long seat; a bench; hence, a rank of students in a school; a
class; also, a class or rank in society. A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Certain degree or measure; as, it is in a manner
done already. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or
quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to
spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. The
representation of any quantity or relation by appropriate characters or
symbols, usually in a specific order.; -- applied Character; condition of
being; purpose subserved or office filled. Mutually contrived or planned;
agreed on; as, concerted schemes, signals. action Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The expression of ideas by
writing, or any other instrumentality. Of what sort or kind; what; what a;
who. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. used Near to, while
passing; hence, from one to the other side of; past; as, to go by a church.
One and one; twice one. Ere; before; sooner than. To make more; to increase.
governments To inclose; to take in; to harvest. treating To denote the
accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes equivalent to
by. another The body politic governed by one authority; a state; as, the
governments of Europe.. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward
a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as
a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is
rising to wealth and honor. To mark out plainly; to signify by a visible sign;
to serve as the sign or name of; to indicate; to point out; as, the hands of
the clock denote the hour. association A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner.
Solicitude; anxious care; concern., as Indicating that instead of which
something else controls in the performing of an action, or that in spite of
which anything is done, occurs, or is; hence, equivalent to notwithstanding,
in spite of; -- generally followed by all, aught, anything, etc. To compare. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The act of
contrasting, or the state of being contrasted; comparison by contrariety of
qualities.. Used adjectively, That which is signified, whether by act
lanquage; signification; sense; import; as, the meaning of a hint. In what
manner or way; by what means or process. Worthy of being remarked or noticed;
noticeable; conspicuous; hence, uncommon; extraordinary., Ere; before; sooner
than. For what reason; from what cause. Superior; admirable; commanding; --
applied to thoughts, actions, and feelings.; as, Used adverbially in a sense
corresponding to the adjectival use; as, he picked what good fruit he saw. The
state of being foolish; want of good sense; levity, weakness, or derangement
of mind.! Whatever; whatsoever; what thing soever; -- used indefinitely.
Fluent, forcible, elegant, and persuasive speech in public; the power of
expressing strong emotions in striking and appropriate language either spoken
or written, thereby producing conviction or persuasion.! Used adjectively,
meaning how remarkable, or how great; as, what folly! what eloquence! what
courage! Heart; inclination; desire; will.! See Thee. The quotient of a unit
divided by three; one of three equal parts into which anything is divided. One
of three relations or conditions (that of speaking, that of being spoken to,
and that of being spoken of) pertaining to a noun or a pronoun, and thence
also to the verb of which it may be the subject. Departing from general usage
or expectations; odd; whimsical; -- often implying disapproval or censure.
Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and
equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the
city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. Depending on itself; independent. A word which
affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of speech
expressing being, action, or the suffering of action. To signify; to represent
or symbolize; to answer to., A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. See Thee.
The indicative mood. Manner; style; mode; logical form; musical style; manner
of action or being. See Mode which is the preferable form)., Favorably
attentive; propitious. Stretched tightly; strained to stiffness; rigid; not
lax; as, a tense fiber.; as, Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense
used substantively. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.; The
chemical symbol for helium. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a
To tame, as a hawk..  To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by the
proper organs; to possess or employ the sense of vision; as, he sees
distinctly. To exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality
or as a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain predicate,
that is, as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or
as identical with what is specified, -- a word or words for the predicate
being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an
animal; to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation
is the cessation of existence; that is the man.. specified, -- a To consume or
spend in talking; -- often followed by away; as, to talk away an evening.;
Consecutive speech, either written or unwritten, on a given line of thought;
speech; treatise; dissertation; sermon, etc.; as, the preacher gave us a long
discourse on duty.; ny declaration of thoughts.; To communicate by language;
to express in language.. A The smaller hosts distributed in the communion of
the laity. To introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb,
or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb. marks an alternative; as,
The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective
case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The
fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. Reading. Ere; before;
sooner than. Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by
can. To form characters, letters, or figures, as representative of sounds or
ideas; to express words and sentences by written signs., -- As an adjective,
that has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a
noun. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., The pronoun of the
second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the
person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. Modesty, courtesy, or
concession, or a desire to soften a question or remark. To make ready for an
object, purpose, or use, as food by cooking; to cook completely or
sufficiently; as, the meat is done on one side only. Pointing out a contrast,
or denoting a particular thing or person different from some other specified;
-- used as a correlative adjective, with or without the. Denoting part of an
aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from
amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. things at The form of the possessive case of
the personal pronoun you. What the will dictates or prefers as gratifying or
satisfying; hence, will; choice; wish; purpose., The thickest and stoutest
part of tanned oxhides, used for soles of boots, harness, trunks. A word used
to express negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal. The one and the other;
the two; the pair, without exception of either..  The neuter pronoun of the
third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she,
and having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them). corresponds
Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand.
Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any
number..  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and
objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the
like. To be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse. One of two; the one
or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger
number, for any one. Addition; union; accumulation. The capital city of
England. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write,
-- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. In
many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant
meaning, or is used elliptically. A town in Berkshire, England..  As a
demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that
which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which
apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John. Frequently; many times; not
seldom. connects a A number of things or events standing or succeeding in
order, and connected by a like relation; sequence; order; course; a succession
of things; as, a continuous series of calamitous events. Denoting relation to
place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people
of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. words A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. propositions, presenting a
The best part; that which is preferable. During; in the course of. Either
precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate words or phrases, and is introductory to
an alternative. It is correlative to or.; as, The man or male being (or object
personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated;
a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject
already indicated. Modesty, courtesy, or concession, or a desire to soften a
question or remark. A piece for special practice. See Etude. the first five
books of the bible, called also Torah, Pentatech, or Law of Moses., Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Any
substance administered in the treatment of disease; a remedial agent; a
medication; a drug; a pharmaceutical; a medicament; a remedy; physic., Ere;
before; sooner than. The Deity; the Supreme Being; God., A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The man or male being (or
object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously
designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a
specified subject already indicated. Modesty, courtesy, or concession, or a
desire to soften a question or remark. To unite in; to join; to be admitted
to; to become a member of; as, to enter an association, a college, an army.
Denoting inclusion; as, put these ideas into other words. A track; a trail; a
way; a path; also, passage; travel; resort.. words Indicating As adverb: To
such a degree; so; as, he was that frightened he could say nothing. With
direction to, in a moral sense; with respect or reference to; regarding;
concerning. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. See Thee. action In a
general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: anything The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. having a specified direction; often
used in combination; as, goal-directed., Ere; before; sooner than. By that; by
how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The
perpendicular rising of a hawk over the place where its prey has gone into
cover. Near; about; approaching to. A compound relative or indefinite pronoun,
standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the . . .
which, and the like; as, take which you will. An application made to a court
or judge orally in open court.  Its object is to obtain an order or rule
directing some act to be done in favor of the applicant. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. having the sheets and blankets set in order;
-- of a bed; as, is the bed made?.; &unr_;ntending Effect; end; consequence;
as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost;
violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. To bet or wager; as,
I'll go you a shilling. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste;
she has a husband to her mind.. A To ply with words; also, to cause to be by
the use of a word or words. placed In front of; preceding in space; ahead of;
as, to stand before the fire; before the house. nouns Accompaniment; as, she
sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. A determining
feature; a distinguishing characteristic; a differentia. A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. To mark as an individual,
or to distinguish from others by peculiar properties; to invest with
individuality; to give distinctive character to; to make distinctive; to
enable differentiation from others of similar type; -- of properties of
things. The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses;
their country. That which is meant or intended; intent; purpose; aim; object;
as, a mischievous meaning was apparent.. Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. affirm Anything unknown, undetermined, or not specifically
designated; a certain indefinite thing; an indeterminate or unknown event; an
unspecified task, work, or thing. Denoting the material of which anything is
composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a
wreath of mist; a cup of water. another An inanimate object, in distinction
from a living being; any lifeless material.; As sign of the infinitive, to had
originally the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun,
and connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus,
ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do
my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost
constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no
prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject;
thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die for one's country is
noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the
design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to;
as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). To bring about; to bring forward;
to be the cause or agent of; to effect, do, perform, or execute; -- often used
with a noun to form a phrase equivalent to the simple verb that corresponds to
such noun; as, to make complaint, for to complain; to make record of, for to
record; to make abode, for to abide, etc. an affirmation. An abode; a A small
house; a cot; a hut.. annexed; as, Space or degree to which a thing is
extended; hence, superficies; compass; bulk; size; length; as, an extent of
country or of line; extent of information or of charity.; A restriction; a
check; a curb; a hindrance.; A certain distance or remove in the line of
descent, determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain of
relationship; as, a relation in the third or fourth degree. Denoting that from
which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as,
he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. A figure by which the name of
a whole is put for a part, or that of a part for a whole, or a definite number
for an indefinite.; The relationship existing between two sets if one is a
subset of the other. as A young pig, or a litter of pigs. as; as, The plural
of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun
proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. imp.
amp p. p. of Meet. The persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; --
the objective case of we. See We. The preposition to primarily indicates
approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and
attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement
toward; -- opposed to from. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account;
-- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. The measure of the relation between quantities or
things of the same kind; that abstract species of quantity which is capable of
being expressed by figures; numerical value. Denoting nearness or distance,
either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour
of the appointed time. The number greater by a unit than two; three units or
objects. The product of ten multiplied by ten, or the number of ten times ten;
a collection or sum, consisting of ten times ten units or objects; five score.
Also, a symbol representing one hundred units, as 100 or C.. Extent; limit;
degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of
three hundred. To be manifest in any manner; to continue to be; as, great
evils existed in his reign. With reference to circumstances or conditions; as,
he is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. a Assured in mind;
having no doubts; free from suspicions concerning. The style of writing or
thought of an author; characteristic peculiarity of an artist. Ere; before;
sooner than. The carrying back, and giving effect or operation to, an act or
proceeding frrom some previous date or time, by a sort of fiction, as if it
had happened or begun at that time. In such case the act is said to take
effect by relation., -- In case; if; -- used to introduce the first or two or
more alternative clauses, the other or others being connected by or, or by or
whether. When the second of two alternatives is the simple negative of the
first it is sometimes only indicated by the particle not or no after the
correlative, and sometimes it is omitted entirely as being distinctly implied
in the whether of the first. as a See 2d Realty, 2. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. as a Anything that is
produced, whether as the result of generation, growth, labor, or thought, or
by the operation of involuntary causes; as, the products of the season, or of
the farm; the products of manufactures; the products of the brain. In a
general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: The act of thinking; the
exercise of the mind in any of its higher forms; reflection; cogitation.; In
many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant
meaning, or is used elliptically. To be manifest in any manner; to continue to
be; as, great evils existed in his reign. as A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. To expose; to make obnoxious or liable;
as, credulity subjects a person to impositions. During; in the course of. a
Not specifically named; indeterminate; indefinite; one or some; -- sometimes
used independenty as a noun, and meaning certain persons. That which is
affirmed or denied of the subject. In these propositions, ldquoPaper is
white,rdquo  ldquoInk is not white,rdquo  whiteness is the predicate affirmed
of paper and denied of ink., In an elliptical sentence to introduce a
dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or
the like. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., as
Possession; goods; estate. a Determined; resolved; -- used with an infinitive.
attribute, Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. as That which belongs to one; that which pertains to one; hence,
goods or effects. The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival,
motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and
also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from.
a Unfailing; infallible. To choose from a number; to select; to cull., Ere;
before; sooner than. as In diplomacy (esp. in the form identic), precisely
agreeing in sentiment or opinion and form or manner of expression; -- applied
to concerted action or language which is used by two or more governments in
treating with another government. With denotes or expresses some situation or
relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like. As an
interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or
things; as, what is this? what did you say? what poem is this? what child is
lost? The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. specified, -- a Talk;
discourse; speech; language. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing
or engraving by small dots. words Indicating that toward which the action of
anything is directed, or the point toward which motion is made; &unr_;ntending
to go to. See Thee. That which is affirmed or denied of the subject. In these
propositions, ldquoPaper is white,rdquo  ldquoInk is not white,rdquo 
whiteness is the predicate affirmed of paper and denied of ink. Existence, as
opposed to nonexistence; state or sphere of existence. annexed; as, Hence, it
indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an
aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement,
or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. To
take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. Favored by hap, luck,
or fortune; lucky; fortunate; successful; prosperous; satisfying desire; as, a
happy expedient; a happy effort; a happy venture; a happy omen.; In many
phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning,
or is used elliptically. To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer to.
In the present life or state.; Character; condition of being; purpose
subserved or office filled. To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer
to. Crossing the line of a ship's course in a favorable direction; -- said of
the wind when it is abeam, or between the beam and the quarter., Ere; before;
sooner than. Ardent; eager; zealous; earnestly engaged; as, a strong partisan;
a strong Whig or Tory.; Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as,
they engaged hand to hand. To exist in a certain manner or relation, --
whether as a reality or as a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a
certain predicate, that is, as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to
a certain sort, or as identical with what is specified, -- a word or words for
the predicate being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to be large, or
strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three and two are
five; annihilation is the cessation of existence; that is the man. an animal;
Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand.
To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. a An illustrious
man, supposed to be exalted, after death, to a place among the gods; a
demigod, as Hercules.; Addition; union; accumulation. To take place; to
happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. a A thing not existing.; The number
greater by a unit than two; three units or objects. and One and one; twice
one. are The number next greater than four, and less than six; five units or
objects.; annihilation The third person singular of the substantive verb be,
in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. A word
placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A ceasing or
discontinuance, as of action, whether temporary or final; a stop; as, a
cessation of the war. In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from;
belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications;
as: The state of existing or being; actual possession of being; continuance in
being; as, the existence of body and of soul in union; the separate existence
of the soul; immortal existence.; To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed
by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc.
The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. To tame, as a hawk.. Ready and expert in
the use of the body and limbs; skillful and active with the hands; handy;
ready; as, a dexterous hand; a dexterous workman.; Prepared in mind or
disposition; not reluctant; willing; free; inclined; disposed.; apt;
Characterized by felicity; happy; prosperous; delightful; skillful;
successful; happily applied or expressed; appropriate..; Degree; measure;
proportion.; That which terminates a period of time; hence, the period itself;
the full time or extent.; A 360th part of the circumference of a circle, which
part is taken as the principal unit of measure for arcs and angles. The degree
is divided into 60 minutes and the minute into 60 seconds. Denoting reference
to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's
achievements; they talked of many things. The act of comprehending,
containing, or comprising; inclusion.; A foreign substance, either liquid or
solid, usually of minute size, inclosed in the mass of a mineral. as Distant
in any direction; not near; remote; mutually separated by a wide space or
extent. as; as, The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively,
but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an
antecedent expressed. imp. amp p. p. of Meet. The persons speaking, regarded
as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. Hence, it
indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an
aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement,
or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The
measure of the relation between quantities or things of the same kind; that
abstract species of quantity which is capable of being expressed by figures;
numerical value. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. The number
greater by a unit than two; three units or objects. The product of ten
multiplied by ten, or the number of ten times ten; a collection or sum,
consisting of ten times ten units or objects; five score. Also, a symbol
representing one hundred units, as 100 or C.. Effect; end; consequence; as,
the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent
factions exist to the prejudice of the state. To take hold; to fix upon
anything; to have the natural or intended effect; to accomplish a purpose; as,
he was inoculated, but the virus did not take. To set; to fix; to repose; as,
to place confidence in a friend.; In many phrases, and in connection with many
other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To come by
chance; to come without previous expectation; to fall out.; as, See Thee. A
junction, crossing, or union; as, the meeting of the roads or of two rivers.
The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood,
preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. In reference to; about;
concerning; as, to think on it; to meditate on it. The fifth day of the week,
following Wednesday and preceding Friday.. At As an adjective, this has the
same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun; as, this
book; this way to town. A pointed piece of quill or bone covered at one end
with vaccine matter; -- called also vaccine point. Denoting the agent, or
person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. A particular
period or part of duration, whether past, present, or future; a point or
portion of duration; as, the time was, or has been; the time is, or will be.,
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity
mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some
of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. an argument; At a time
contemporaneous with something spoken of or contemplated; at a particular time
referred to..; Degree; measure; proportion.; To apply a limit to, or set a
limit for; to terminate, circumscribe, or restrict, by a limit or limits; as,
to limit the acreage of a crop; to limit the issue of paper money; to limit
one's ambitions or aspirations; to limit the meaning of a word.; Grade or rank
to which scholars are admitted by a college or university, in recognition of
their attainments; also, (informal) the diploma provided by an educational
institution attesting to the achievement of that rank; as, the degree of
bachelor of arts, master, doctor, etc.; to hang one's degrees on the office
wall. In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to;
relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: A figure by
which the name of a whole is put for a part, or that of a part for a whole, or
a definite number for an indefinite.; The relationship existing between two
sets if one is a subset of the other. as Distant in any direction; not near;
remote; mutually separated by a wide space or extent. as; as, The plural of
he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun
proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. imp.
amp p. p. of Meet. The persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; --
the objective case of we. See We. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or
tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of
being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going
to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Quantity, regarded as made up of
an aggregate of separate things. Denoting that by which a person or thing is
actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as,
they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. The number greater by a unit than two; three units or objects. The
product of ten multiplied by ten, or the number of ten times ten; a collection
or sum, consisting of ten times ten units or objects; five score. Also, a
symbol representing one hundred units, as 100 or C.. In a very general way,
and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs
with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or
passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
To take hold; to fix upon anything; to have the natural or intended effect; to
accomplish a purpose; as, he was inoculated, but the virus did not take.
Ordinal relation; position in the order of proceeding; as, he said in the
first place.; As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last
defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). To come by chance; to come without previous expectation; to
fall out.; as, A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. An assembly for worship; as, to attend meeting on Sunday; -- in
England, applied distinctively and disparagingly to the worshiping assemblies
of Dissenters. The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the
indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. in consequence
of, or following; as, on the ratification of the treaty, the armies were
disbanded; start on the count of three. The fifth day of the week, following
Wednesday and preceding Friday.. Abundant; ample; as, a Free; unembarrassed.
That which supplies a want; sufficiency of things for use or want. Denoting
the material of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a
throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water.
provisions., To make yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to dye
yellow. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small
dots. A yellow color, like that of the metal; as, a flower tipped with gold.
An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to the plaintiff an
appearance of title, by stating his title specially, thus removing the cause
from the jury to the court., -- represented With reference to a whole which
includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the
first regiment in the army. The process of pulling out and elongating the
sliver from the carding machine, by revolving rollers, to prepare it for
spinning. Ere; before; sooner than. The act or art of producing upon hard
material incised or raised patterns, characters, lines, and the like;
especially, the art of producing such lines, etc., in the surface of metal
plates or blocks of wood. Engraving is used for the decoration of the surface
itself; also, for producing an original, from which a pattern or design may be
printed on paper. Aside; as, to lay by; to put by. To make little or less.
dots. Possession; goods; estate. virtues Denoting relation to place or time;
belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle
Ages; in the days of Herod. Large in number; numerous; as, a great company,
multitude, series, etc. Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an
agent or force; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy of
medicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer.; A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade., Possession; goods; estate.
a A separate or distinct member of a class, or part of a whole; an individual
fact, point, circumstance, detail, or item, which may be considered
separately; as, the particulars of a story. That which makes, or helps to
make, anything such as it is; anything belonging to a subject, or predicable
of it; distinguishing property, characteristic, or attribute; peculiar power,
capacity, or virtue; distinctive trait; as, the tones of a flute differ from
those of a violin in quality; the great quality of a statesman. With privilege
or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by
descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. a Holding a chief
position; elevated: lofty: eminent; distinguished; foremost; principal; as,
great men; the great seal; the great marshal, etc. A 360th part of the
circumference of a circle, which part is taken as the principal unit of
measure for arcs and angles. The degree is divided into 60 minutes and the
minute into 60 seconds.; as, a Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, etc., which
retain the old declensional endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems
have held the original endings most firmly, and are called strong; the stems
in -n are called weak other constant stems conform, or are irregular. To be
reduced to powder; to become like powder; as, some salts powder easily. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. To imbue the
mind of; to communicate a portion of anything foreign to; to tinge.; a Having
virtues of great efficacy; or, having a particular quality in a great degree;
as, a strong powder or tincture; a strong decoction; strong tea or coffee. An
extract got from a body by boiling it in water.; Full of spirit; containing a
large proportion of alcohol; intoxicating; as, strong liquors. To take or
drink tea. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. a social gathering at which coffee is served, with optional other foods
or refreshments..; Not out; within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes an
adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the representative of an
adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is; as, he
takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans
were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or
into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in
(i. e., into the house). a True; real; actual; veritable. Usual; common, on
most occasions; as, his general habit or method. Course or direction of motion
or process; tendency of action; advance., and To denote association in respect
of situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of. Not capable of
being counted, enumerated, or numbered, for multitude; countless; numberless;
unnumbered, hence, indefinitely numerous; of great number. varieties Denoting
relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens;
the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. application, Apposition;
connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. connects
Having the power of making a transit, or passage. verbs To denote simultaneous
happening, or immediate succession or consequence. The possessive case of the
personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. remoter Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Not reaching the
end aimed at by the most plain and direct method; as, an indirect proof,
demonstration, etc. To offer in opposition as a criminal charge or by way of
accusation or reproach; to adduce as an objection or adverse reason., and
adjectives, nouns, and To render incapable of sexual reproduction; to remove
or alter the sexual organs so as to make infertile; to alter; to fix; to
desex; -- in male animals, to castrate; in female animals, to spay. Ere;
before; sooner than. Designating certain morbid conditions, as hemorrhage or
dropsy, characterized by relaxation of the vessels and tissues, with deficient
vitality and lack of reaction in the affected tissues. verbs To denote the
accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes equivalent to
by. a One's followers, adherents, or dependents, collectively. A word used as
the designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in
thought; a substantive. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and
adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an
individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it?
which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take;
which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. limits
The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their
country. action. Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. An orbit, as of a
star; a socket. verges On; -- used in all the senses of that word, with which
it is interchangeable. To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or
might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. Denoting that
by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a
purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move
of itself; he did it of necessity. Indicating the space or time through which
an action or state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time
of., A person at whom ridicule, jest, or contempt is directed; as, the butt of
the company. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows;
it rains. contains Not so much; in a smaller or lower degree; as, less bright
or loud; less beautiful. See Thee. A plan or purpose of action; intention;
design. In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to;
relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: To form a
design or designs; to plan. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. appropriation; as, The plural of this. See This.
remarks A weir.  See Weir. addressed Apposition; connection; antithesis;
opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. a Unrestrained by decorum; -- said
of language. audience; A retarding; hindrance; obstacle; impediment; delay; --
common in the phrase without let or hindrance, but elsewhere archaic. The
persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of
we. See We. To continue in, as a course or mode of action; not to intermit or
fall from; to hold to; to maintain; as, to keep silence; to keep one's word;
to keep possession. As a demonstrative pronoun, this denotes something that is
present or near in place or time, or something just mentioned, or that is just
about to be mentioned. To cause to occupy a post, site, situation, or the
like; to station; to establish; to fix; to settle. Accord; adaptation; as, an
occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. An emphasized form of
the pronoun of the first person plural; -- used as a subject, usually with we;
also, alone in the predicate, in the nominative or the objective case.; a
Body; matter; material of which a thing is made; hence, substantiality;
solidity; firmness; as, the substance of which a garment is made; some textile
fabrics have little substance. Pleasing to the eye; beautiful; mild and
attractive; fair; as, a sweet face; a sweet color or complexion. Accord;
adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The one
of the five senses by which certain properties of bodies (called their taste,
savor, flavor) are ascertained by contact with the organs of taste.; an To
break forth. Painstaking; careful; industrious. In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. To fix the mind or thoughts on; to regard with attention; to
treat as of consequence; to consider; to heed; to mark; to note.; The
efficiency of an engine, especially a steam pumping engine, as measured by
work done by a certain quantity of fuel; usually, the number of pounds of
water lifted one foot by one bushel of coal (94 lbs. old standard), or by 1
cwt. (112 lbs., England, or 100 lbs., United States). Apposition; connection;
antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. Good. and Extent;
limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the
number of three hundred. Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our
country; our rights; our troops; our endeavors. See I. parents; a A feeling of
positive and usually permanent aversion to something unpleasant, uncongenial,
or offensive; disapprobation; repugnance; displeasure; disfavor; -- the
opposite of liking or fondness. The preposition to primarily indicates
approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and
attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement
toward; -- opposed to from. Having the quality of spirit; tenuous in
substance, and having active powers or properties; ethereal; immaterial;
spiritual; pure. To supply with liquor.. The preposition to primarily
indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or
thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival;
movement toward; -- opposed to from. To lead; to conduct; as, to take a child
to church. A broad way in a city; an open space; an area; a court or short
part of a street open only at one end.; Apposition; connection; antithesis;
opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. To take place; to occur.; as, See
Thee. A coming together; an assembling; as, the meeting of Congress. The first
and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit
(imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. In addition to; besides; -- indicating
multiplication or succession in a series; as, heaps on heaps; mischief on
mischief; loss on loss; thought on thought. The fifth day of the week,
following Wednesday and preceding Friday.. an animal; Accompaniment; as, A
woman; a female; -- used substantively. imp. of Sing. Character; condition of
being; purpose subserved or office filled. Belonging or pertaining to him; --
used as a pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers
are ready; formerly used also for its, but this use is now obsolete. A
stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger,
and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of
catgut, -- played upon with the fingers.; The plural of he, she, or it. They
is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes
refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. danced Accompaniment; as,
she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. See Thee. The
written and printed notation of a musical composition; the score. Denoting
possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the
apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of
heaven. a Soft; -- a direction to the performer to execute a certain passage
softly, and with diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.). In a very general
way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive
verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter
or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
The quantity or copy given to a compositor at one time. To assign a place to;
to put in a particular spot or place, or in a certain relative position; to
direct to a particular place; to fix; to settle; to locate; as, to place a
book on a shelf; to place balls in tennis.; In a very general way, and with
innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their
remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs
with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that
of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these
remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To come by chance;
to come without previous expectation; to fall out.; as, A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A congregation; a collection of
people; a convention; as, a large meeting; an harmonious meeting. The first
and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit
(imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. Of. The fifth day of the week, following
Wednesday and preceding Friday.. a An Characterized by greatness, nobleness,
etc.; eminent; conspicuous; distinguished. To wait on as a manservant.,
supposed In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a
pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To exist actually, or in the world
of fact; to have existence. Raised to lofty height; elevated; extolled;
refined; dignified; sublime., after Personified: The destroyer of life, --
conventionally represented as a skeleton with a scythe., The preposition to
primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a
place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without
arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. a Rank; degree; grade; order of
priority, advancement, dignity, or importance; especially, social rank or
position; condition; also, official station; occupation; calling. among By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. gods; a
A half god, or an inferior deity; a fabulous hero, the offspring of a deity
and a mortal., as A hero, fabled to have been the son of Jupiter and Alcmena,
and celebrated for great strength, esp. for the accomplishment of his twelve
great tasks or ldquolabors.rdquo.; With reference to character, reach, scope,
or influence considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's
favor. a In a high degree; to no small extent; exceedingly; excessively;
extremely; as, a very great mountain; a very bright sun; a very cold day; the
river flows very rapidly; he was very much hurt. As a whole; in gross; for the
most part. The longitudinal guides, or guiding surfaces, on the bed of a
planer, lathe, or the like, along which a table or carriage moves., and To
denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to
against. Not capable of being counted, enumerated, or numbered, for multitude;
countless; numberless; unnumbered, hence, indefinitely numerous; of great
number. varieties Denoting passage from one state to another; from.
application, Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the
music of a piano. connects Effected by transference of signification. verbs To
denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or consequence. The
possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country.
remoter Ere; before; sooner than. Not straightforward or upright; unfair;
dishonest; tending to mislead or deceive. That which is put, or which may be
regarded as put, in the way of some of the senses; something visible or
tangible and persists for an appreciable time; as, he observed an object in
the distance; all the objects in sight; he touched a strange object in the
dark., and adjectives, nouns, and To render incapable of sexual reproduction;
to remove or alter the sexual organs so as to make infertile; to alter; to
fix; to desex; -- in male animals, to castrate; in female animals, to spay. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Designating
certain morbid conditions, as hemorrhage or dropsy, characterized by
relaxation of the vessels and tissues, with deficient vitality and lack of
reaction in the affected tissues. verbs To denote a close or direct relation
of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. a Next after;
succeeding; ensuing; as, the assembly was held on the following day. A word
used as the designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in
fact or in thought; a substantive. A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring
to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is
specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause
(generally involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded).
It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons.
limits The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses;
their country. action. Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. Rank; order
of society; social positions. verges On; -- used in all the senses of that
word, with which it is interchangeable. As adverb: To such a degree; so; as,
he was that frightened he could say nothing. Denoting identity or equivalence;
-- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of
apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of
Cuba. Indicating that in prevention of which, or through fear of which,
anything is done., The end of a connecting rod or other like piece, to which
the boxing is attached by the strap, cotter, and gib. As a substance for any
noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. contains To
make less; to lessen. See Thee. A rational conception; the complete conception
of an object when thought of in all its essential elements or constituents;
the necessary metaphysical or constituent attributes and relations, when
conceived in the abstract. Denoting that by which a person or thing is
actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as,
they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. The invention and conduct of the subject; the disposition of every
part, and the general order of the whole. Yellow or gold color, -- represented
in drawing or engraving by small dots. appropriation; as, The plural of this.
See This. remarks A man. addressed Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar;
they danced to the music of a piano. a Abundant; ample; as, a large supply of
provisions. audience; To allow to be used or occupied for a compensation; to
lease; to rent; to hire out; -- often with out; as, to let a farm; to let a
house; to let out horses. The persons speaking, regarded as an object;
ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. To remain in any position or
state; to continue; to abide; to stay; as, to keep at a distance; to keep
aloft; to keep near; to keep in the house; to keep before or behind; to keep
in favor; to keep out of company, or out reach. As a demonstrative pronoun,
this denotes something that is present or near in place or time, or something
just mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned. That part of a thing on
which a person sits; as, the seat of a chair or saddle; the seat of a pair of
pantaloons. Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as,
they met us to the number of three hundred. An emphasized form of the pronoun
of the first person plural; -- used as a subject, usually with we; also, alone
in the predicate, in the nominative or the objective case.; a That which
underlies all outward manifestations; substratum; the permanent subject or
cause of phenomena, whether material or spiritual; that in which properties
inhere; that which is real, in distinction from that which is apparent; the
abiding part of any existence, in distinction from any accident; that which
constitutes anything what it is; real or existing essence. That which is sweet
or pleasant in odor; a perfume. Addition; union; accumulation. See Thee. To
try food with the mouth; to eat or drink a little only; to try the flavor of
anything; as, to taste of each kind of wine.; an An affair in hand; business;
enterprise. Requiring labor or toil; difficult; executed with laborious
effort; as a painful service; a painful march. Character; condition of being;
purpose subserved or office filled. See Thee. Memory; remembrance;
recollection; as, to have or keep in mind, to call to mind, to put in mind,
etc.; Respect; reverence; regard; act of respect; homage. Addition; union;
accumulation. A being conceived of as possessing supernatural power, and to be
propitiated by sacrifice, worship, etc.; a divinity; a deity; an object of
worship; an idol. and Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced
to the music of a piano. Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our
country; our rights; our troops; our endeavors. See I. parents; a A feeling of
positive and usually permanent aversion to something unpleasant, uncongenial,
or offensive; disapprobation; repugnance; displeasure; disfavor; -- the
opposite of liking or fondness. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his
taste; she has a husband to her mind. Having the quality of spirit; tenuous in
substance, and having active powers or properties; ethereal; immaterial;
spiritual; pure. Specifically, alcoholic or spirituous fluid, either distilled
or fermented, as brandy, wine, whisky, beer, etc.. Accord; adaptation; as, an
occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. To live; to have life
or the functions of vitality; as, men can not exist in water, nor fishes on
land. actually, A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the
last century; in all my life. See Thee. Individual experience of, or concern
with, life; course of life; sum of the affairs which affect the individual;
as, to begin the world with no property; to lose all, and begin the world
anew. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to
boast of one's achievements; they talked of many things. Reality; actuality;
truth; as, he, in fact, excelled all the rest; the fact is, he was beaten.;
Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one
that you will offend him. To take or hold (one's self); to proceed promptly;
-- used reflexively, often with ellipsis of the pronoun; as, to have after
one; to have at one or at a thing, i. e., to aim at one or at a thing; to
attack; to have with a companion. The state of existing or being; actual
possession of being; continuance in being; as, the existence of body and of
soul in union; the separate existence of the soul; immortal existence.. a A In
Scandinavian countries, a legislative or judicial assembly; -- used, esp. in
composition, in titles of such bodies. See Legislature, Norway. A word used to
express negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal. Presently existing; as, the
existing system..; A single person or thing. With an adjective or adverb
(instead of the suffix -er) to form the comparative degree; as, more durable;
more active; more sweetly. A particle expressing comparison, used after
certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more,
better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object
compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is
placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians
as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually
introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want. One
and one; twice one.; One and one; twice one. and Denoting a person or thing
conceived or spoken of indefinitely; a certain. ldquoI am the sister of one
Claudiordquo [Shak.], that is, of a certain man named Claudio.. and Closely
bound together; undivided; united; constituting a whole. and A single person
or thing.; Doubly; in twofold quantity or degree; as, twice the sum; he is
twice as fortunate as his neighbor. Denoting a person or thing conceived or
spoken of indefinitely; a certain. ldquoI am the sister of one Claudiordquo
[Shak.], that is, of a certain man named Claudio.. are By that; by how much;
by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The measure of the
relation between quantities or things of the same kind; that abstract species
of quantity which is capable of being expressed by figures; numerical value.
In the time, place, or order nearest or immediately succeeding; as, this man
follows next. greater A particle expressing comparison, used after certain
adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better,
other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared
in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in
the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a
preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually
introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want. The
sum of four units; four units or objects., and Unless. A particle expressing
comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison
or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually
followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however,
the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then
considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is
expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer
than that you should want. One more than five; twice three; as, six yards.; A
symbol representing this number, as 5, or V. units Ere; before; sooner than.
objects.; annihilation A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. The third part of the estate of a deceased husband, which, by
some local laws, the widow is entitled to enjoy during her life. The bodily
form of a human being; body; outward appearance; as, of comely person.
Separate or apart from others; single; distinct. Denoting nearness or
distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. A noun or name; the part of speech which
designates something that exists, or some object of thought, either material
or immaterial; as, the words man, horse, city, goodness, excellence, are
substantives. A word which affirms or predicates something of some person or
thing; a part of speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action.
To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer to., With reference to
movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes
equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in
death; to put our trust in God. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. Suggestive; representing the whole by a part, as
a fleet by a ship, a forest by a tree, etc. Manner; style; mode; logical form;
musical style; manner of action or being. See Mode which is the preferable
form)., To present; to personate. Stretched tightly; strained to stiffness;
rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber.; as, Man; a male; any male person; -- in
this sense used substantively. The third person singular of the substantive
verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See
Be.; The man or male being (or object personified to which the masculine
gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender,
usually referring to a specified subject already indicated. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a A term of familiar address at one time
implying on the part of the speaker some degree of authority, impatience, or
haste; as, Come, man, we 've no time to lose!  In the latter half of the 20th
century it became used in a broader sense as simply a familiar and informal
form of address, but is not used in business or formal situations; as, hey,
man!  You want to go to a movie tonight?..  The seat of an archbishop; a
province or jurisdiction of an archbishop; as, an archiepiscopal see. To exist
actually, or in the world of fact; to have existence.. A Hence, the written or
printed character, or combination of characters, expressing such a term; as,
the words on a page. placed In front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to
stand before the fire; before the house. nouns Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. A restriction; a check; a curb; a hindrance. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. To consider individually;
to mention each individual. The possessive case of the personal pronoun they;
as, their houses; their country. That which is meant or intended; intent;
purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was apparent.. A ceasing Ere;
before; sooner than. The act of discontinuing, or the state of being
discontinued; want of continued connection or continuity; breaking off;
cessation; interruption; as, a discontinuance of conversation or intercourse;
discontinuance of a highway or of travel., as During; in the course of.
action, In case; if; -- used to introduce the first or two or more alternative
clauses, the other or others being connected by or, or by or whether. When the
second of two alternatives is the simple negative of the first it is sometimes
only indicated by the particle not or no after the correlative, and sometimes
it is omitted entirely as being distinctly implied in the whether of the
first. Lasting for a time only; existing or continuing for a limited time; not
permanent; as, the patient has obtained temporary relief. Ere; before; sooner
than. Conclusive; decisive; as, a final judgment; the battle of Waterloo
brought the contest to a final issue.; a A point or mark in writing or
printing intended to distinguish the sentences, parts of a sentence, or
clauses; a mark of punctuation. See Punctuation.; as, a A ceasing or
discontinuance, as of action, whether temporary or final; a stop; as, a
cessation of the war. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of
subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king;
a man of courage; the gate of heaven. See Thee. To make war; to invade or
attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in
a state by violence.. In the time of; as long as the action or existence of;
as, during life; during the space of a year.; With reference to a limit of
time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. See
Thee. A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same height
throughout the face or faces of a building. Denoting that from which anything
proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a
race of kings; he is of noble blood.. Having extension of time, space, order
of events, exertion of energy, etc.; extended; protracted; uninterrupted;
also, resumed after interruption; extending through a succession of issues,
session, etc.; as, a continued story. Ere; before; sooner than. repeated That
which manifests; a phenomenon which gives evidence of something hidden;
exhibition; display; revelation; as, the manifestation of God's power in
creation; the delayed manifestation of a disease.; A coming or happening; as,
the occurrence of a railway collision., as Denoting relation to place or time;
belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle
Ages; in the days of Herod. events Denoting nearness or distance, either in
space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the
appointed time. any Gentle; tractable; easily governed; as, a horse kind in
harness.; as, By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. That which exists; a being; a creature; an entity; as, living
existences. During; in the course of. a A state or time of distress or
misfortune; misery. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to
a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he
had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. a
A statement; also, a document containing a statement. Denoting the material of
which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a
sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. Forces; army..; Character;
condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled. To produce; to cause
to exist; to induce. a Instance; example.; -- usually followed Against.
Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can., A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Force or
power of any kind, whether of body or mind; energy or intensity of purpose,
feeling, or action; means or resources to effect an object; strength; force;
power; ability; capacity., and At frequent or short intervals; many times;
often; repeatedly; commonly. preceded With, as means, way, process, etc.;
through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a
city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force. In
the same manner; as has been stated or suggested; in this or that condition or
state; under these circumstances; in this way; -- with reflex reference to
something just asserted or implied; used also with the verb to be, as a
predicate., With reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in
difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. Of material things, like the
books in a library., Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to
twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. By that; by how much;
by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Point beyond which no
procession can be made; conclusion; issue; result, whether successful or
otherwise; conclusive event; consequence., etc. A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. The quotient of a unit divided by three;
one of three equal parts into which anything is divided. A parson; the parish
priest. Separate or apart from others; single; distinct. Denoting possession
or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of
the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. See
Thee. Pertaining to, or constituting, the essential part or principles; as,
the law substantive. A word; a vocable. To exist actually, or in the world of
fact; to have existence., With reference to movement or tendency toward a
certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed
in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. See
Thee. The indicative mood. Temper of mind; temporary state of the mind in
regard to passion or feeling; humor; as, a melancholy mood; a suppliant mood.,
Now existing, or in process; begun but not ended; now in view, or under
consideration; being at this time; not past or future; as, the present session
of Congress; the present state of affairs; the present instance. One of the
forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary words, so as to
indicate the time of the action or event signified; the modification which
verbs undergo for the indication of time.; as, The man or male being (or
object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously
designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a
specified subject already indicated. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be.; The man or male being (or object personified to which the
masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the
masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already indicated.
The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a A married man; a husband; --
correlative to wife..  The seat, place, or office of the pope, or Roman
pontiff; as, the papal see. To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer
to.. On; along; in traversing. Compare 5. To introduce a purpose; -- usually
followed by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the
end, etc.; Used in specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a cabin twenty feet by
forty. In what state, condition, or plight. A thing uncommon, wonderful, or
noticeable; something considerable.; Against. Very; in a high degree; that is,
in such a degree as can not well be expressed; as, he is so good; he planned
so wisely. A great quantity; a great deal; also, an indefinite quantity; as,
you have as much as I.; In reference or relation to; as, on our part expect
punctuality; a satire on society. As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was
that frightened he could say nothing. account; -- used Earlier; sooner than;
until then. comparatives; as, See Thee. One who longs for anything. The plural
nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a
person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one,
as the subject of an action expressed by a verb. To be permanent or durable;
to endure; to last. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it
happened in the last century; in all my life. Transgression of the law of God;
disobedience of the divine command; any violation of God's will, either in
purpose or conduct; moral deficiency in the character; iniquity; as, sins of
omission and sins of commission., See Thee. A hill. Hard to manage or to
please; not easily wrought upon; austere; stubborn; as, a difficult person. As
a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it
home. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred. To return to a good state; to amend or correct one's own character or
habits; as, a man of settled habits of vice will seldom reform.. An adult
Evil; wicked; bad. One in a state of subjection or bondage.; also, a
Resembling a vassal; slavish; servile.; a The principal theme, or leading
thought or phrase, on which a composition or a movement is based...
Experiencing Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the
music of a piano. To give or deliver (a blow to); to strike; hit; as, he took
me in the face; he took me a blow on the head. What the will dictates or
prefers as gratifying or satisfying; hence, will; choice; wish; purpose.; The
preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the
direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or
tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. To inquire for;
to ask for; to solicit; to beseech. To go on; to proceed, especially in
argument or discourse; to continue. That which pleases; a favor; a
gratification.; as, In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To proceed or tend toward a result,
consequence, or product; to tend; to conduce; to be an ingredient; to avail;
to apply; to contribute; -- often with the infinitive; as, this goes to show.
pleasuring.. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. A parish priest, or a chaplain, of the Greek Church. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. The possessive of
he; as, the book is his. Any jurisdiction, civil, military, or ecclesiastical.
at Rome; as, Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office
filled. appeal Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the
music of a piano. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. The seat of an archbishop; a province or jurisdiction of an
archbishop; as, an archiepiscopal see. Denoting that by which a person or
thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due
to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. Rome. A imp. of Bind. consisting Denoting reference to a thing;
about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they
talked of many things. a To understand the meaning of; to comprehend; as, do
you twig me? Contorted; crooked spirally; subjected to torsion; hence,
perverted...; To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or
consequence. Relation; regard; respect. Comparison; as, three is to nine as
nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. Of or
pertaining to physics, or natural philosophy; treating of, or relating to, the
causes and connections of natural phenomena; as, physical science; physical
laws. Inclosing; encircling., Pertaining to human beings as distinct from
things. states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, The nominative case of the
pronoun of the first person; the word with which a speaker or writer denotes
himself. am A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. Difficulty expressed or
urged for solution; point unsettled; objection.; By that; by how much; by so
much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue
in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Especially, space in a building or
ship inclosed or set apart by a partition; an apartment or chamber. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. With reference to space or place; as,
he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the air. A state of
privacy; secrecy.; Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has
a husband to her mind. To enjoy or make the most of life; to be in a state of
happiness; as, people want not just to exist, but to live. With reference to
movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes
equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in
death; to put our trust in God. To have a reverential awe of; to be solicitous
to avoid the displeasure of.. A The body of retainers who follow a prince or
other distinguished person; a train of attendants; a suite. Denoting part of
an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of;
from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. servants; a A line of ancestory; a race or
house.. phrases, and To denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance,
assistance, countenance, etc.; hence, on the side of. Relation; regard;
respect. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined,
governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect
object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto
going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life
pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). circumstances A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. conditions; as, Any one; the man or person; -- used
indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. With reference to a whole which includes or
comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the first regiment
in the army. difficulties; This or that female; the woman understood or
referred to; the animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine,
which was spoken of. imp. amp p. p. of Stand. With reference to a limit of
time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. a To
designate by blazing; to mark out, as by blazed trees; as, to blaze a line or
path. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water. Having light; not dark or obscure; bright; clear; as, the apartment is
light.. See Thee. scheduled arrival Denoting nearness or distance, either in
space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the
appointed time. Single in kind; the same; a common. That in or on which any
person or thing is, or may be, carried, as a coach, carriage, wagon, cart,
car, sleigh, bicycle, etc.; a means of conveyance; specifically, a means of
conveyance upon land. and Removal from the present life; death; decease.
Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the
source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no
body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. a A motion in support of
another motion which has been moved in a deliberative body;  a motion without
a second dies without discussion., To a sufficient degree; to a degree that
answers the purpose, or gives content; enough; as, we are sufficiently
supplied with food; a man sufficiently qualified for the discharge of his
official duties. Shut fast; closed; tight; as, a close box. A reeumlntrant
angle; a nook or corner. A particular period or part of duration, whether
past, present, or future; a point or portion of duration; as, the time was, or
has been; the time is, or will be. and A broad way in a city; an open space;
an area; a court or short part of a street open only at one end. Hence, it
indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an
aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement,
or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. allow
A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. leaving a
starting or stopping point on a journey; as, Departing flights were delayed by
the snowstorm.  Opposite of arriving. That in or on which any person or thing
is, or may be, carried, as a coach, carriage, wagon, cart, car, sleigh,
bicycle, etc.; a means of conveyance; specifically, a means of conveyance upon
land. To lead off in delivering the ball. as a means In a general sense, from,
or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used
in a variety of applications; as: continuing a The distance that is traveled
in a journey{2}, or the time taken to complete a journey{2}; as, it's a
two-day journey from the oasis into Cairo by camel; from Mecca to Samarkand is
quite a journey. p. p. of Begin. Ere; before; sooner than. Having extension of
time, space, order of events, exertion of energy, etc.; extended; protracted;
uninterrupted; also, resumed after interruption; extending through a
succession of issues, session, etc.; as, a continued story. With privilege or
possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by
descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Preceding all others
of a series or kind; the ordinal of one; earliest; as, the first day of a
month; the first year of a reign. Any liquid with which a pigment is applied,
including whatever gum, wax, or glutinous or adhesive substance is combined
with it.; as, The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person;
the word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or
company of which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb.
To know; to understand. A divorce granted by a Rabbi in accordance with Jewish
law; also, the document attesting to the divorce. a The persons or things that
are connected; as, a business connection; the Methodist connection. at Newark
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. To carry onward or extend; to prolong or produce; to add to or draw out
in length. Adhering; not off; as in the phrase, ldquoHe is neither on nor
off,rdquo that is, he is not steady, he is irresolute. In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. The chief city of France.; -- Greatest in degree; as, he has the
most need of it. In common; familiarly. used Denoting identity or equivalence;
-- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of
apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of
Cuba. airplanes, trains, and buses arriving and leaving a starting or stopping
point on a journey; as, Departing flights were delayed by the snowstorm. 
Opposite of arriving. at See Thee. Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or
the like; not differing in character or in the quality or qualities compared;
corresponding; not discordant; similar; like. Either of the ends of the
conducting circuit of an electrical apparatus, as an inductorium, dynamo, or
electric motor, usually provided with binding screws for the attachment of
wires by which a current may be conveyed into or from the machine; a pole.. As
sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing
the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). To be
the sign of; to betoken; to signify; to mean. association To inclose; to take
in; to harvest. A small degree or quantity; a trifle; as, a thought longer; a
thought better., as Indicating the space or time through which an action or
state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of. To compare.
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To
stand in opposition; to exhibit difference, unlikeness, or opposition of
qualities.. Consisting Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of
subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king;
a man of courage; the gate of heaven. a Superior; admirable; commanding; --
applied to thoughts, actions, and feelings. To give or apply a number or
numbers to; to assign the place of in a series by order of number; to
designate the place of by a number or numeral; as, to number the houses in a
street, or the apartments in a building.; Consisting of poetic numbers;
rhythmical; measured and counted; melodious; musical.; Shorn; shaven. Not
many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of
units or individuals constituting a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few
people.. Alternate; The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly
applied to the alto.; -- used esp. With reference to character, reach, scope,
or influence considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's
favor. (usually plural) an acquaintance or acquaintances who are influential
or in a position of power and to whom you are connected in some way (as by
family or friendship); as, he has powerful connections. To denote a close or
direct relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. Every
one.  Cf. Each.; as, All the parts which compose a whole collection or
aggregate number, considered in their individuality, all taken separately one
by one, out of an indefinite number. Either; -- used with other or or for its
correlative (as either . . . or are now used). A specified time or period;
time, considered with reference to the existence or prominence of a person or
thing; age; time., To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; -- usually
preceded by so or such, sometimes by that. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be., Every; -- sometimes used interchangeably with every. alternate
Those hours, or the daily recurring period, allotted by usage or law for
work., All the parts which compose a whole collection or aggregate number,
considered in their individuality, all taken separately one by one, out of an
indefinite number. One who, or that which, follows, or comes after; one next
and inferior in place, time, rank, importance, excellence, or power. A
specified time or period; time, considered with reference to the existence or
prominence of a person or thing; age; time.. words, To inclose; to take in; to
harvest. a In a high degree; to no small extent; exceedingly; excessively;
extremely; as, a very great mountain; a very bright sun; a very cold day; the
river flows very rapidly; he was very much hurt. The chief of an order of
monks, or of all the houses or congregations under the same rule. Determined
course; resolved mode of action or conduct; as, to have one's way., and To
denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance,
etc.; hence, on the side of. Not capable of being counted, enumerated, or
numbered, for multitude; countless; numberless; unnumbered, hence,
indefinitely numerous; of great number. varieties Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven.
application, Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as,
they met us to the number of three hundred. connects Passing over to an
object; expressing an action which is not limited to the agent or subject, but
which requires an object to complete the sense; as, a transitive verb, for
example, he holds the book. verbs To denote a close or direct relation of
opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. The possessive case of the
personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. remoter A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Not tending
to an aim, purpose, or result by the plainest course, or by obvious means, but
obliquely or consequentially; by remote means; as, an indirect accusation,
attack, answer, or proposal. Sight; show; appearance; aspect., and adjectives,
nouns, and To render incapable of sexual reproduction; to remove or alter the
sexual organs so as to make infertile; to alter; to fix; to desex; -- in male
animals, to castrate; in female animals, to spay. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Receiving or enduring
without either active sympathy or active resistance; without emotion or
excitement; patient; not opposing; unresisting; as, passive obedience; passive
submission. verbs To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or
consequence. a Next after; succeeding; ensuing; as, the assembly was held on
the following day. A word used as the designation or appellation of a creature
or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive. A relative pronoun,
used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with
reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following
noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to something which
has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of
persons. limits The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their
houses; their country. action. Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. The
apparent surface of the heavens, which is assumed to be spherical and
everywhere equally distant, in which the heavenly bodies appear to have their
places, and on which the various astronomical circles, as of right ascension
and declination, the equator, ecliptic, etc., are conceived to be drawn; an
ideal geometrical sphere, with the astronomical and geographical circles in
their proper positions on it. verges On; -- used in all the senses of that
word, with which it is interchangeable. To introduce a clause employed as the
object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a
verb. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to
attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of
courage; the gate of heaven. Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an
act; the end or final cause with reference to which anything is, acts, serves,
or is done., The hut or shelter of the person who attends to the targets in
rifle practice. As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence,
pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or
referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John.
contains The inferior, younger, or smaller. By that; by how much; by so much;
on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in
sin, the more difficult it is to reform. A fiction object or picture created
by the imagination; the same when proposed as a pattern to be copied, or a
standard to be reached; one of the archetypes or patterns of created things,
conceived by the Platonists to have excited objectively from eternity in the
mind of the Deity. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which,
anything is, or is done; by. To form a design or designs; to plan. Ere;
before; sooner than. appropriation; as, The plural of this. See This. remarks
The imperfect indicative plural, and imperfect subjunctive singular and
plural, of the verb be.  See Be. addressed Accompaniment; as, she sang to his
guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. a Having more than usual power or
capacity; having broad sympathies and generous impulses; comprehensive; --
said of the mind and heart. audience; To be let or leased; as, the farm lets
for $500 a year. See note under Let, v. t. The persons speaking, regarded as
an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. To observe; to
adhere to; to fulfill; not to swerve from or violate; to practice or perform,
as duty; not to neglect; to be faithful to. As a demonstrative pronoun, this
denotes something that is present or near in place or time, or something just
mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned. The place or thing upon
which one sits; hence; anything made to be sat in or upon, as a chair, bench,
stool, saddle, or the like. Character; condition of being; purpose subserved
or office filled. An emphasized form of the pronoun of the first person
plural; -- used as a subject, usually with we; also, alone in the predicate,
in the nominative or the objective case.; a The most important element in any
existence; the characteristic and essential components of anything; the main
part; essential import; purport. Sweetly. The preposition to primarily
indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or
thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival;
movement toward; -- opposed to from. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. To have perception, experience, or enjoyment;
to partake; as, to taste of nature's bounty.; an That which comes, arrives, or
happens; that which falls out; any incident, good or bad. Requiring labor or
toil; difficult; executed with laborious effort; as a painful service; a
painful march. Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it
is ten to one that you will offend him. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. To put in mind; to remind.; Tax, toll,
impost, or customs; excise; any sum of money required by government to be paid
on the importation, exportation, or consumption of goods. Character; condition
of being; purpose subserved or office filled. Figuratively applied to one who
wields great or despotic power. and In many phrases, and in connection with
many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. Of or
pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our country; our rights; our troops;
our endeavors. See I. parents; a Discord; dissension. In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. Containing, or of the nature of, alcoholic (esp. distilled)
spirit; consisting of refined spirit; alcoholic; ardent; as, spirituous
liquors. Any liquid substance, as water, milk, blood, sap, juice, or the
like.. 3As a numeral D stands for 500. in this use it is not the initial of
any word, or even strictly a letter, but one half of the sign &unr_; (or
&unr_; ) the original Tuscan numeral for 1000. Light blue; grayish blue; -- a
term applied to different shades at different periods.. To celebrate in song;
to give praises to in verse; to relate or rehearse in numbers, verse, or
poetry.. pres. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or
appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent
of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. To cause or procure to be;
to effect; to exact; to desire; to require.. a An abode; a cottage. With
denotes or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity,
association, connection, or the like. The offspring of animals, either a
single animal or offspring collectively., as a Having pistils and no stamens;
pistillate; or, in cryptogamous plants, capable of receiving fertilization.;
Possession; goods; estate. conceived; Older, younger, or more remote, by
single generation; -- often used before grand to indicate one degree more
remote in the direct line of descent; as, great-grandfather (a grandfather's
or a grandmother's father), great-grandson, etc. To denote a close or direct
relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. Being in the
first part, pr period, of growth; as, a young plant; a young tree.; Deportment
or behavior in the external offices and decorums of social life; manners;
knowledge of, or training in, the ceremonies, or polite observances of
society.; Prolific; productive.; Being with child; heavy with young; pregnant;
fruitful; as, a gravid uterus; gravid piety; -- of animals as well as people.;
preparing In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To cause the accession or obtaining
of; to procure; to make to come; to produce; to draw to. Throughly; from
beginning to end.. As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was that frightened
he could say nothing. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. imp. amp p. p. of Mean. A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. Purposed;
designed; as, intended harm or help.; Closely directed; strictly attentive;
bent; -- said of the mind, thoughts, etc.; as, a mind intent on
self-improvement.; To have a purpose or intention; to discourse.; aim;
Opposed; presented in opposition; also, exposed.; as, a Causing mischief;
harmful; hurtful; -- now often applied where the evil is done carelessly or in
sport; as, a mischievous child. That which is signified, whether by act
lanquage; signification; sense; import; as, the meaning of a hint. The first
and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit
(imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. apparent., A A crumb or little piece of
consecrated host. To introduce a clause employed as the object of the
preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb. marks an
alternative; as, The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. The merrymaking of May Day. Reading. Ere; before; sooner than.
Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. To be
regularly employed or occupied in writing, copying, or accounting; to act as
clerk or amanuensis; as, he writes in one of the public offices., -- To
introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the
subject or predicate nominative of a verb. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be., The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.  See the Note
under Ye. The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. To see or
inspect; to explore; as, to do all the points of interest. Single in kind; the
same; a common. During; in the course of. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. things at The form of the possessive case
of the personal pronoun you. Amusement; sport; diversion; self-indulgence;
frivolous or dissipating enjoyment; hence, sensual gratification; -- opposed
to labor, service, duty, self-denial, etc., A push, thrust, or sudden blow,
given by the head of an animal; as, the butt of a ram. Shorn; shaven. The one
and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either..  The neuter
pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the
feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them).
corresponds Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as,
they met us to the number of three hundred. Each of two; the one and the
other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number..  The pronoun of the
second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the
person or persons addressed.  See the Note under Ye. The fifth month of the
year, containing thirty-one days. To sit on, so as to be carried; as, to ride
a horse; to ride a bicycle. One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used
of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. In a very
general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
The capital city of England. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to
his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the
prejudice of the state. A town in Berkshire, England..  The neuter pronoun of
the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine
she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them). Frequent;
common; repeated. connects a Any comprehensive group of animals or plants
including several subordinate related groups. Denoting nearness or distance,
either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour
of the appointed time. words Ere; before; sooner than. propositions,
presenting a Selected with care, and due attention to preference; deliberately
chosen. During; in the course of. Either precedes two, or more, cooumlrdinate
words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to
or.; as, Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used substantively.
The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. To apply the mind to
books or learning. An exclamation of mild surprise., Yellow or gold color, --
represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Among the North American
Indians, any object supposed to give control over natural or magical forces,
to act as a protective charm, or to cause healing; also, magical power itself;
the potency which a charm, token, or rite is supposed to exert., Ere; before;
sooner than. The science of divine things; the science which treats of God,
his laws and moral government, and the way of salvation; theology., A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The man or
male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned),
previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to
a specified subject already indicated. Modesty, courtesy, or concession, or a
desire to soften a question or remark. To engage in; to become occupied with;
as, to enter the legal profession, the book trade, etc. Indicating insertion;
as, to infuse more spirit or animation into a composition. imp. of Tread.. A
word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Next after
the second; coming after two others; -- the ordinal of three; as, the third
hour in the day. A human being spoken of indefinitely; one; a man; as, any
person present. Departing from general usage or expectations; odd; whimsical;
-- often implying disapproval or censure. Denoting part of an aggregate or
whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as,
of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most
of the company. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. To substantivize. A word which affirms or predicates something of
some person or thing; a part of speech expressing being, action, or the
suffering of action. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on
Thursday., The specific signification of in is situation or place with respect
to surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs
signifying being, resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or
conditions of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing,
either wholly or in part. In its different applications, it approaches some of
the meanings of, and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at,
of, and among. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. The indicative mood. Manner of conceiving and expressing action or
being, as positive, possible, conditional, hypothetical, obligatory,
imperitive, etc., without regard to other accidents, such as time, person,
number, etc.; as, the indicative mood; the imperitive mood; the infinitive
mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode., Now existing, or in process; begun
but not ended; now in view, or under consideration; being at this time; not
past or future; as, the present session of Congress; the present state of
affairs; the present instance. Stretched tightly; strained to stiffness;
rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber.; as, Man; a male; any male person; -- in
this sense used substantively. The third person singular of the substantive
verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See
Be.; Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used substantively. The
third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. a One, or any one,
indefinitely; -- a modified survival of the Saxon use of man, or mon, as an
indefinite pronoun..  To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes; to watch;
to regard attentively; to look after. To signify; to represent or symbolize;
to answer to.. used With reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston;
he traveled in Italy; castles in the air. See Thee. To take a form, definite
shape, or arrangement; as, the infantry should form in column. Denoting
possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the
apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of
heaven. an An oval or oblong figure, bounded by a regular curve, which
corresponds to an oblique projection of a circle, or an oblique section of a
cone through its opposite sides. The greatest diameter of the ellipse is the
major axis, and the least diameter is the minor axis. See Conic section, under
Conic, and cf. Focus... A A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. A person of high rank. Denoting identity or equivalence; --
used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition;
as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. Existence,
as opposed to nonexistence; state or sphere of existence. An object of
pleasure.; a Among tailors, cloth suitable for making entire suits of
clothes.. In poker and similar games at cards, to meet (a bet), or to equal
the bet of (a player), by staking the same sum. By virtue of; with the pledge
of; -- denoting a pledge or engagement, and put before the thing pledged; as,
he affirmed or promised on his word, or on his honor. Looking; appearing; as,
better or worse liking. See Like, to look., Under, or lower in place; beneath
not so high; as, below the moon; below the knee..; a To introduce a clause
employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate
nominative of a verb. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. preferred; A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. That toward which the mind, or any of
its activities, is directed; that on which the purpose are fixed as the end of
action or effort; that which is sought for; goal; end; aim; motive; final
cause. Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with;
as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. Act of
choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from two or more things
that which is preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring one thing
to another; election. Ere; before; sooner than. Pointing toward the apex of
the fruit; ascending; -- said of the radicle. Appearance; look; countenance;
face.; as, A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or
clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a
sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference,
however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and
genders, and was formerly used of persons. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you. The
act of Preferring, or the state of being preferred; the setting of one thing
before another; precedence; higher estimation; predilection; choice; also, the
power or opportunity of choosing; as, to give him his preference.?; A
Direction or course toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal
or efficient influence to bring about an effect or result. See Toward. another
A person; a human being; -- frequently in composition; as, anybody, nobody.
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To
mark (a text, as in Arabic or Hebrew) with vowel points; -- also called
vocalize..; -- usually To denote association in respect of situation or
environment; hence, among; in the company of. Appeal. In a very general way,
and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs
with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or
passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere
verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. a
A determinate quantity, to which a variable one continually approaches, and
may differ from it by less than any given difference, but to which, under the
law of variation, the variable can never become exactly equivalent. Denoting
nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of
the town; within an hour of the appointed time. Tense.; as, With reference to
movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes
equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in
death; to put our trust in God. an Fixed or appointed time; conjuncture; a
particular time or occasion; as, the hour of greatest peril; the man for the
hour.; As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book,
take it home. happened The specific signification of in is situation or place
with respect to surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with
verbs signifying being, resting, or moving within limits, or within
circumstances or conditions of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining,
or investing, either wholly or in part. In its different applications, it
approaches some of the meanings of, and sometimes is interchangeable with,
within, into, on, at, of, and among. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. Farthest of all from a given quality, character,
or condition; most unlikely; having least fitness; as, he is the last person
to be accused of theft. A period of a hundred years; as, this event took place
over two centuries ago.; Not out; within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes
an adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the representative of an
adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is; as, he
takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans
were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or
into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in
(i. e., into the house). all Of or belonging to me; -- used always
attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the
book is mine. See Mine. Something dear to one as one's existence; a darling;
-- used as a term of endearment.. pl.; as, See Thee. The plural number; that
form of a word which expresses or denotes more than one; a word in the plural
form. Giving a name; naming; designating; -- said of that case or form of a
noun which stands as the subject of a finite verb. A patient under treatment;
an instance of sickness or injury; as, ten cases of fever; also, the history
of a disease or injury. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name
or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. A word used instead of
a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in
English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. Denoting passage
from one state to another; from. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. Foremost; in front of, or in advance of, all
others. Among Trinitarians, one of the three subdivisions of the Godhead (the
Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an hypostasis.; A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Verbal contention; dispute. To
denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance,
etc.; hence, on the side of. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively
and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer
to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is
it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should
take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. a
To represent as a person; to personify; to impersonate. With reference to
character, reach, scope, or influence considered as establishing a limitation;
as, to be in one's favor. The act of uttering words. Ere; before; sooner than.
The act or art of forming letters and characters on paper, wood, stone, or
other material, for the purpose of recording the ideas which characters and
words express, or of communicating them to others by visible signs. denotes a
A numeral; a word or character denoting a number; as, to put a number on a
door. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, --
that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade.
Partners in a firm whose names are not mentioned in its style or title; --
often abbreviated in writing; as, Hottinguer amp Co. Denoting that by which a
person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or
action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself;
he did it of necessity. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. The man or
male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned),
previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to
a specified subject already indicated. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. A single unit; as, one is the base of all numbers., as By that;
by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. To cause to
undergo; as, to subject a substance to a white heat; to subject a person to a
rigid test. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or
appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent
of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. an action Precisely and
clearly expressed, leaving nothing to implication.  Opposite of implicit. Out
of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of
something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing
private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was
formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as, by-business,
by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. a A word which affirms or
predicates something of some person or thing; a part of speech expressing
being, action, or the suffering of action.. all Apposition; connection;
antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. To enter into and
influence; to control the will of; to fill; to affect; -- said especially of
evil spirits, passions, etc., as A part; a portion, more or less; an
indefinite quantity or degree; a little. A compound relative or indefinite
pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the .
. . which, and the like; as, take which you will. appertains Effect; end;
consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to
his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state., The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. p. p. of connect. With denotes or
expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association,
connection, or the like., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. affects, A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or i..
likes and dislikes.; as, To fall in with; to meet or associate with; to have
intercourse or communication with; hence, to have knowledge or experience of;
as, to see military service. To thrive; to prosper.. A A complete sentence, or
part of a sentence consisting of a subject and predicate united by a copula; a
thought expressed or propounded in language; a from of speech in which a
predicate is affirmed or denied of a subject; as, snow is white.; an The act
of exposing or laying open; a setting out or displaying to public view.; a The
power of the mind to reason or infer by running, as it were, from one fact or
reason to another, and deriving a conclusion; an exercise or act of this
power; reasoning; range of reasoning faculty.. From this place; away., The
neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he
and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs,
them). indicates Direction of movement; course; tendency; as, the motion of
the planets is from west to east., Method of procedure; manner or way of
conducting; conduct; behavior., Ere; before; sooner than. Direction or course
toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient
influence to bring about an effect or result. Near; about; approaching to. a
The measured duration of sounds; measure; tempo; rate of movement; rhythmical
division; as, common or triple time; the musician keeps good time., a The
principal persons in a government. A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. That which must exist as the occasion or
concomitant of something else; that which is requisite in order that something
else should take effect; an essential qualification; stipulation; terms
specified., an aim, Ere; before; sooner than. anything Capacious; large;
comprehensive. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin,
source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble
blood. That which exists in any form, whether it be material or spiritual,
actual or ideal; living existence, as distinguished from a thing without life;
as, a human being; spiritual beings. regarded as a A restriction; a check; a
curb; a hindrance. Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to
twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. a Direction or course
toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient
influence to bring about an effect or result., A more or less organized effort
by many people to achieve some goal, especially a social or artistic goal; as,
the women's liberation movement; the progressive movement in architecture.,
Ere; before; sooner than. action; as, Any one; the man or person; -- used
indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. That goes; in existence; available for
present use or enjoyment; current; obtainable; also, moving; working; in
operation; departing; as, he is of the brightest men going; going prices or
rate. Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to
her mind. a Course; custom; practice; occupation; employment.; The man or male
being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned),
previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to
a specified subject already indicated. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. Growing; advancing to adult years and to the state of active
life; as, the rising generation. Addition; union; accumulation. Large
possessions; a comparative abundance of things which are objects of human
desire; esp., abundance of worldly estate; affluence; opulence; riches. and A
cause of respect and fame; a glory; an excellency; an ornament; as, he is an
honor to his nation.. To inclose; to take in; to harvest. a Earliest formed;
fundamental. The style of writing or thought of an author; characteristic
peculiarity of an artist.; With reference to physical surrounding, personal
states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness;
to live in fear. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. Foremost; in front of, or in advance of, all others. To
attribute; to ascribe; to set down.; With reference to movement or tendency
toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to
put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in
God. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal or instrumental; --
so called because it generally expresses the air, and has a preeumlminence in
the combined effect. To attribute; to ascribe; to set down.; With reference to
circumstances or conditions; as, he is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze
of light. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal or instrumental; --
so called because it generally expresses the air, and has a preeumlminence in
the combined effect. The object toward which the thoughts are directed; end;
aim.; In the original time, or in an original manner; primarily; from the
beginning or origin; not by derivation, or imitation.. indicates approach and
arrival, Alteration in the order of a series; permutation. With reference to
movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes
equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in
death; to put our trust in God. See Thee. Having relation or reference;
referring; respecting; standing in connection; pertaining; as, arguments not
relative to the subject. To indicate the position of; to place. Denoting part
of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of;
from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. The local environment; as, he hasn't been seen
around these parts in years. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning;
relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of many things.
anything; action During; in the course of. a To subject to the action of
machinery; to make, cut, shape, or modify with a machine; to effect by aid of
machinery; to print with a printing machine. To denote having as a possession
or an appendage; as, the firmament with its stars; a bride with a large
fortune. Reputation; repute. In many phrases, and in connection with many
other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. A person connected by
blood or affinity; strictly, one allied by blood; a relation; a kinsman or
kinswoman. A system of mechanism for transmitting motion of a definite
character, or for transforming motion; as, the wheelwork of a watch; as, a
seventeen jewel movement. Denoting that from which anything proceeds;
indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of
kings; he is of noble blood. Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. The
local environment; as, he hasn't been seen around these parts in years..
Artificially produced; pieced In or into union; into junction; as, to sew,
knit, or fasten two things together; to mix things together.; Having
structure; capable of growth and development; organized; as, the formed or
organized ferments. See Ferment, n. Near to, while passing; hence, from one to
the other side of; past; as, to go by a church. That which is used to fill a
cavity or any empty space, or to supply a deficiency; as, filling for a cavity
in a tooth, a depression in a roadbed, the space between exterior and interior
walls of masonry, the pores of open-grained wood, the space between the outer
and inner planks of a vessel, etc. One who is in office; -- the opposite of
out.; as, See Mad, n. A gummy composition spread over the surface of a metal
to be etched, to prevent the acid from eating except where an opening is made
by the needle.; a Artificially produced; pieced together; formed by filling
in; as, made ground; a made mast, in distinction from one consisting of a
single spar. To furnish with a mast or masts; to put the masts of in position;
as, to mast a ship., A reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. Estimation of
difference; regard to differences or distinguishing circumstance. Out of the
neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason
of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement
of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence,
separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates,
the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as
setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the
occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of
to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword
from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the
fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from
bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it
proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.
Single in kind; the same; a common. consisting Denoting passage from one state
to another; from. a A unit; one; as, to score a single. An old name for a
nonmetallic mineral, usually cleavable and somewhat lustrous; as, calc spar,
or calcite, fluor spar, etc.  It was especially used in the case of the gangue
minerals of a metalliferous vein.. To denote a close or direct relation of
opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. One who, or that which, is
referred to. The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival,
motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and
also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from.
One of the persons of a drama or novel., To arrive at; to come to; to get as
far as., That at which one aims; the thing or end to which the mind directs
its view; that which is purposed to be reached or accomplished; hence,
ultimate design, aim, or purpose; intention; drift; object., Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. A flowing in or
upon; influx. considered as establishing a A certain precinct within which
friars were allowed to beg, or exercise their functions; also, the time during
which they were permitted to exercise their functions in such a district.; as,
Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or
condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a
tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to
wealth and honor. To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer to. With
reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy;
castles in the air. one's A kind act or office; kindness done or granted;
benevolence shown by word or deed; an act of grace or good will, as distinct
from justice or remuneration.. A To ply with words; also, to cause to be by
the use of a word or words. placed In advance. nouns Accord; adaptation; as,
an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. A determinate
quantity, to which a variable one continually approaches, and may differ from
it by less than any given difference, but to which, under the law of
variation, the variable can never become exactly equivalent. A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. To consider individually;
to mention each individual. The possessive case of the personal pronoun they;
as, their houses; their country. That which is meant or intended; intent;
purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was apparent.. See Thee. The
title by which any person or thing is known or designated; a distinctive
specific appellation, whether of an individual or a class. and That which
falls to the bottom of liquors; sediment; also, refuse; residuum. Denoting
that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the
like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. a A shoot or bud of
a plant; a polyp or zooid of the compound Hydrozoa, Anthozoa, etc.; also, an
individual, in the narrowest sense, among the higher animals. Apposition;
connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. The
objective case of who.  See Who. any Whatever may be possessed or owned; a
property; -- distinguished from person. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. imp. amp p. p. of Send., p. p. of Write, v. On; -- used in all
the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable. By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. Whatever may be
possessed or owned; a property; -- distinguished from person. See Scent, v.
amp n.; That part of a prescription which contains the Latin word recipe
(Take) or the sign &unr_;.; address; as, A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. That which is imposed by directing; a guiding
or authoritative instruction; prescription; order; command; as, he grave
directions to the servants. Denoting the material of which anything is
composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a
wreath of mist; a cup of water. a A single type; type, collectively; a style
of type.. Denoting See Thee. agent, Ere; before; sooner than. One of three
relations or conditions (that of speaking, that of being spoken to, and that
of being spoken of) pertaining to a noun or a pronoun, and thence also to the
verb of which it may be the subject. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in
composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental,
or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,
by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition
than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
The objective case of who.  See Who., Ere; before; sooner than. Clothes;
furniture; appurtenances; luggage; as, to pack or store one's things. On;
along; in traversing. Compare 5. Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who.,
anything The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be., A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Performed; executed; finished.; On;
along; in traversing. Compare 5.. a Apposition; connection; antithesis;
opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. To set bounds to; to fix the
determination of; to limit; to bound; to bring to an end; to finish. Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. announce See
Thee. To place-kick ( a goal). Denoting that from which anything proceeds;
indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of
kings; he is of noble blood. at By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. The result of completed labor, as on the
surface of an object; manner or style of finishing; as, a rough, dead, or
glossy finish given to cloth, stone, metal, etc.. Usually, A reeumlntrant
angle; a nook or corner. To mate with (a mare); -- said of the male. a. amp n.
from Race, v. t. amp i. Save or except (that); -- an adversative used
elliptically with or without that, and properly introducing a single fact or
consideration. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. Preceding all others of a series or kind; the ordinal of one;
earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first year of a reign. One more
than two; two and one. horses are placed By the proper officer; by virtue of
the proper authority; in pursuance of the special powers vested in an officer
or office; as, accounts or reports officially verified or rendered; letters
officially communicated; persons officially notified.. A yellow pigment. A
particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is,
you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds
to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A metallic
element of atomic number 79, constituting the most precious metal used as a
common commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristic yellow color, is
one of the heaviest substances known (specific gravity 19.32), is soft, and
very malleable and ductile. It is quite unalterable by heat (melting point
1064.4deg C), moisture, and most corrosive agents, and therefore well suited
for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au (Aurum). Atomic weight 196.97.
Shade or variety of character; kind; species., -- represented With reference
to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in
the air. The process of stretching or spreading metals as by hammering, or, as
in forming wire from rods or tubes and cups from sheet metal, by pulling them
through dies. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. An impression from an engraved plate, block of wood, or other
material; a print. Near; in the neighborhood; present; as, there was no person
by at the time. Being of slight consequence; feeble in influence or
importance; unimportant; trivial; insignificant; as, a small fault; a small
business. dots. To inclose; to take in; to harvest. A native or inhabitant of
Scandinavia. countries, a Of or pertaining to the making of laws; suitable to
legislation; as, the transaction of legislative business; the legislative
style. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, --
that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade.
Pertaining or appropriate to courts of justice, or to a judge; practiced or
conformed to in the administration of justice; sanctioned or ordered by a
court; as, judicial power; judicial proceedings; a judicial sale. assembly.
and attaining See Thee. To render incapable of sexual reproduction; to remove
or alter the sexual organs so as to make infertile; to alter; to fix; to
desex; -- in male animals, to castrate; in female animals, to spay. A word
used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal
pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they.
Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as,
the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate
of heaven. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
The third part of the estate of a deceased husband, which, by some local laws,
the widow is entitled to enjoy during her life. A character or part, as in a
play; a specific kind or manifestation of individual character, whether in
real life, or in literary or dramatic representation; an assumed character.,
Answering; conformable; agreeing; suiting; as, corresponding numbers.
Addition; union; accumulation. By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. Having the inflections of, or construed with,
words pertaining especially to male beings, as distinguished from feminine and
neuter. See Gender. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the
repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he,
she, it, we, ye, and they. Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used
substantively. and See Thee. Any one of those words which are the appellations
of females, or which have the terminations usually found in such words; as,
actress, songstress, abbess, executrix. A woman; a female; -- used
substantively., and Possession; goods; estate. See Thee. Just mentioned, or
just about to be mentioned. Relating to, or containing, more than one;
designating two or more; as, a plural word. (The plural of he, she, or it.
They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes
refers to persons without an antecedent expressed., The possessive case of the
personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. theirs, The objective case
of they. See They.)., access; and also, An application See Mad, n. In a very
general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. a
The residence of a sovereign, prince, nobleman, or other dignitary; a palace.
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To
examine and pass sentence on; to try; to doom. In an oral manner. To inclose;
to take in; to harvest. To expand; to spread out; to be disclosed; as, the
harbor opened to our view. To attempt to gain; to solicit; to seek.. 
Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. To set before or against; to bring
into opposition; to oppose. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one
that you will offend him. To hold; to keep; to possess. an A body of persons
having some common honorary distinction or rule of obligation; esp., a body of
religious persons or aggregate of convents living under a common rule; as, the
Order of the Bath; the Franciscan order. Ere; before; sooner than. That which
is prescribed or laid down as a guide for conduct or action; a governing
direction for a specific purpose; an authoritative enactment; a regulation; a
prescription; a precept; as, the rules of various societies; the rules
governing a school; a rule of etiquette or propriety; the rules of cricket.
directing About; near; more or less; -- used commonly with numerals, but
formerly also with a singular substantive of time or distance; as, a village
of some eighty houses; some two or three persons; some hour hence. act As sign
of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). To
take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. It is done or agreed;
let it be a match or bargain; -- used elliptically. With reference to
circumstances or conditions; as, he is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze
of light. Mildness or mitigation of punishment; lenity. Denoting the material
of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of
gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. applicant. Rather than.; Under
the cognizance or jurisdiction of.; In the western United States, one who
settles on government land before it is legally open to settlement in order to
gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is
opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or
anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage. Then. See
Then.. The line or course upon which anything is moving or aimed to move, or
in which anything is lying or pointing; aim; line or point of tendency; direct
line or course; as, the ship sailed in a southeasterly direction. Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To run as in
a race, or in hunting; to pursue the sport of coursing; as, the sportsmen
coursed over the flats of Lancashire. Readly to do or learn; compliant with
duty; not froward; apt; docile; tractable; as, a toward youth. any To set; to
fix; to repose; as, to place confidence in a friend., Anything which exists
and which has attributes; distinguished from attributes, processes, and
relations., Consequence intended; purpose; meaning; general intent; -- with
to., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, --
that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It
corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often
connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as,
he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. That
which results; the conclusion or end to which any course or condition of
things leads, or which is obtained by any process or operation; consequence or
effect; as, the result of a course of action; the result of a mathematical
operation.; A tool used in driving down compactly the composition contained in
a rocket, or like firework.; Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or
containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative. Ere; before;
sooner than. Causing effects; producing results; that makes the effect to be
what it is; actively operative; not inactive, slack, or incapable;
characterized by energetic and useful activity; as, an efficient officer,
power. Hence, in general, the bringing about of an effect, physical or moral,
by a gradual process; controlling power quietly exerted; agency, force, or
tendency of any kind which affects, modifies, or sways; as, the influence
which the sun exerts on animal and vegetable life; the influence of education
on the mind; the influence, according to astrologers, of the stars over
affairs. In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a
pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. To convey; to move; to carry or
conduct. about an Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to
embrace real as well as personal property; as, the people escaped from the
town with their effects. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. A flying back; resilience.. The furthest limit, as to
number, quantity, extent, etc.; the utmost; as, it may last a week at the
outside. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin,
source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble
blood. See Thee. To stow in a safe place; to take down and make safe; as, to
house the upper spars.; Beyond the bounds of what is true, reasonable,
correct, proper, common, etc.; in error or mistake; in a wrong or incorrect
position or opinion; in a state of disagreement, opposition, etc.; in an
inharmonious relation. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name
or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. doors. arrival;
Denoting a person or thing conceived or spoken of indefinitely; a certain.
ldquoI am the sister of one Claudiordquo [Shak.], that is, of a certain man
named Claudio. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or
appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent
of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. See Thee. Each particular
taken singly; an item; a detail; an individual. strains A particle that marks
an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of
the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. pieces, Every; -- sometimes
used interchangeably with every. Filled up; with no part or element lacking;
free from deficiency; entire; perfect; consummate. To inclose; to take in; to
harvest. The neuter reflexive pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself;
it stands by itself., To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as,
the firmament with its stars; a bride with a large fortune. Possessive form of
the pronoun it. See It. Belonging to; belonging exclusively or especially to;
peculiar; -- most frequently following a possessive pronoun, as my, our, thy,
your, his, her, its, their, in order to emphasize or intensify the idea of
property, peculiar interest, or exclusive ownership; as, my own father; my own
composition; my own idea; at my own price. Tense. and The harmonious flow of
vocal sounds., A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and
adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an
individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it?
which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take;
which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. To
reach; to attain; to arrive at or in sight of. The state of being up or above;
a state of elevation, prosperity, or the like; -- rarely occurring except in
the phrase ups and downs. a larger Exertion of strength or faculties; physical
or intellectual effort directed to an end; industrial activity; toil;
employment; sometimes, specifically, physical labor.; as, A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. Separate; distinct; particular;
single. movements Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or
impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of
their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. a A
retinue or company of attendants, as of a distinguished personage; as, the
suite of an ambassador. See Suit, n., 5. Yellow or gold color, -- represented
in drawing or engraving by small dots. a A stringed instrument formerly in
use, somewhat resembling the virginal.. A word of command, or a position, in
the manual of arms, at which the piece is cocked and held in position to
execute promptly the next command, which is, aim. In a very general way, and
with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with
their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive
verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon
that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as,
these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. act; Ready; prompt;
strongly inclined; in an ill sense, overready; too hasty.; To be or become
bold.; Vigorous in body; strong; powerful; as, a valiant fencer..; -- stated
precisely; -- of the meaning of words or concepts. Near; in the neighborhood;
present; as, there was no person by at the time. active The state of being
placed over against; situation so as to front something else.; as, The sum of
one and one; the number next greater than one, and next less than three; two
units or objects. In a bitter manner. acting in opposition to; as, the
opposing sector of the same muscle group. schools Denoting nearness or
distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town;
within an hour of the appointed time. Meditation; serious consideration..
Addition; The act of uniting or joining two or more things into one, or the
state of being united or joined; junction; coalition; combination.;
accumulation. A place or space outside of something; a nook or corner; an
angle projecting outward; an open space; -- chiefly used in the phrase ins and
outs; as, the ins and outs of a question. See under In. Denoting possession or
ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the
consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. See Thee.
A place near; vicinity; adjoining district; a region the inhabitants of which
may be counted as neighbors; as, he lives in my neighborhood. Denoting
relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens;
the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod.; a change downward; a
decrease; a reduction. A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read
or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but
not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. Given to flattery or deceit; flattering; cozening. The
quality or state of being next in time, place, causation, influence, etc.;
immediate nearness, either in place, blood, or alliance. Character; condition
of being; purpose subserved or office filled.; leaving Left a distance by, in
progress of improvement Hence: Inferior to in dignity, rank, knowledge, or
excellence, or in any achievement.; Out of the common path; aside; -- used in
composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental,
or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,
by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition
than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
A thought or a consideration offered in support of a determination or an
opinion; a just ground for a conclusion or an action; that which is offered or
accepted as an explanation; the efficient cause of an occurrence or a
phenomenon; a motive for an action or a determination; proof, more or less
decisive, for an opinion or a conclusion; principle; efficient cause; final
cause; ground of argument. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a
name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the
continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba.; Expressing
impatience, anger, a desire to be rid of; -- with the force of command; go
out; begone; away; off. During; in the course of.; Out of the common path;
aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside,
secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding
notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely
used in composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment,
by-design, by-interest, etc. aid Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used
with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as,
the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba.; -- used At
whatever time. Separation or removal from a place; the act or process of
departing or going away., That in which something, as a gem, is set; as, the
gold setting of a jeweled pin. Beyond the limit of existence, continuance, or
supply; to the end; completely; hence, in, or into, a condition of extinction,
exhaustion, completion; as, the fuel, or the fire, has burned out; that style
is on the way out., The day when degrees are conferred by colleges and
universities upon students and others. Denoting the material of which anything
is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of
steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. action, That which exists in any
form, whether it be material or spiritual, actual or ideal; living existence,
as distinguished from a thing without life; as, a human being; spiritual
beings., Estate; possession., Any event or incident; esp., one which happens
without being designed or expected; as, an unusual occurrence, or the ordinary
occurrences of life., etc., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may
read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure,
but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to
Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a
choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may
enter into trade. That which results; issue; product., The act of flowing or
proceeding from a fountain head or origin., absence, Chemical analysis., etc.,
are Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he
engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the
state. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. Communicated
in words.. As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs,
the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick man? The
third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood,
present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. construed To denote having as
a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament with its stars; a bride with a
large fortune., and indicates, By that; by how much; by so much; on that
account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the
more difficult it is to reform. The perpendicular rising of a hawk over the
place where its prey has gone into cover. Denoting reference to a thing;
about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they
talked of many things. that portion of the universe outside the earth or its
atmosphere; -- called also outer space. Yellow or gold color, -- represented
in drawing or engraving by small dots. The present life; existence in this
world as contrasted with immortal life; definite, as contrasted with infinite,
duration. at A compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one
which, whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as,
take which you will. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize
their meaning. action, The principal persons in a government., etc., are
regarded as That in which something, as a gem, is set; as, the gold setting of
a jeweled pin. One who, or that which, is out; especially, one who is out of
office; -- generally in the plural. A particle that marks an alternative; as,
you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your
pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to
London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. Enterprise.; also, The inferior, younger, or
smaller. At frequent or short intervals; many times; often; repeatedly;
commonly., See Thee. That from which anything comes forth, regarded as its
cause or origin; the person from whom anything originates; first cause., See
Thee. The side of a question, which is espoused, advocated, and upheld by a
person or party; a principle which is advocated; that which a person or party
seeks to attain., See Thee. To give occasion to; to cause; to produce; to
induce; as, to occasion anxiety., To give out; to dispose of; to sell. In a
general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: A interrogative pronoun,
used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions,
to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a
class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked
which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note
under What, pron., 1. anything That which comes forth or results; effect;
yield; issue; product; sum accruing from a sale, etc.; -- A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. antithesis and Having or
indicating a reciprocal relation. Denoting nearness or distance, either in
space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the
appointed time. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last
defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as
indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e.,
ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead
my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8).; as, As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of
affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick
man?, The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative
mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Denoting a person or
thing conceived or spoken of indefinitely; a certain. ldquoI am the sister of
one Claudiordquo [Shak.], that is, of a certain man named Claudio. A division
of a country in England, supposed to have originally contained a hundred
families, or freemen. miles Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. A game at cards,
played by four persons, with two packs of fifty-two cards each; -- said to be
so called from Boston, Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of
the French army in America during the Revolutionary war. In many phrases, and
in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. Springfield; Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used
substantively. imp. of Take. The possessive of he; as, the book is his. One of
the end bars by which the lay of a hand loom is suspended. Out of the
neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason
of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement
of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence,
separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates,
the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as
setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the
occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of
to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword
from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the
fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from
bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it
proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. The
possessive of he; as, the book is his. The margin, edge, verge, or border of a
surface; especially (when the thing spoken of is somewhat oblong in shape),
one of the longer edges as distinguished from the shorter edges, called ends;
a bounding line of a geometrical figure; as, the side of a field, of a square
or triangle, of a river, of a road, etc.; White or whitish; not intense or
very marked; not of a deep shade; moderately colored; as, a light color; a
light brown; a light complexion. That which comes forth or results; effect;
yield; issue; product; sum accruing from a sale, etc. Out of the neighborhood
of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by
aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action,
being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation,
etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of
space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. See Sunn.; Unconnected;
not united or associated; distinct; -- said of things that have not been
connected. See Thee. Large in bulk, or composed of large parts or particles;
of inferior quality or appearance; not fine in material or close in texture;
gross; thick; rough; -- opposed to fine; as, coarse sand; coarse thread;
coarse cloth; coarse bread. A sort of pubescence, or a clothing of dense,
curling hairs on the surface of certain plants. Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. See Thee. Nice;
delicate; subtle; exquisite; artful; skillful; dexterous.; pl. of Man. To take
or hold (one's self); to proceed promptly; -- used reflexively, often with
ellipsis of the pronoun; as, to have after one; to have at one or at a thing,
i. e., to aim at one or at a thing; to attack; to have with a companion. all
imp. amp p. p. of Spring. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. Adam, and Frequent;
common; repeated. To pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in
a state not motionless or at rest; to proceed; to advance; to make progress;
-- used, in various applications, of the movement of both animate and
inanimate beings, by whatever means, and also of the movements of the mind;
also figuratively applied. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. Possessing
desirable qualities; adapted to answer the end designed; promoting success,
welfare, or happiness; serviceable; useful; fit; excellent; admirable;
commendable; not bad, corrupt, evil, noxious, offensive, or troublesome, etc.
Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us
to the number of three hundred. Bade., and Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. Wanting good
qualities, whether physical or moral; injurious, hurtful, inconvenient,
offensive, painful, unfavorable, or defective, either physically or morally;
evil; vicious; wicked; -- the opposite of good; as, a bad man; bad conduct;
bad habits; bad soil; bad air; bad health; a bad crop; bad news. Addition;
union; accumulation. That which is worse; something less good; as, think not
the worse of him for his enterprise.; By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. To reward. During; in the course of. an
action depends At or in the time of; during; as, on Sunday we abstain from
labor. See At (synonym). By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; --
used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more
difficult it is to reform. An original faculty or endowment. Out of the
neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason
of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement
of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence,
separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates,
the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as
setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the
occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of
to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword
from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the
fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from
bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it
proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. A
relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but
sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to
a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to
something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was
formerly used of persons. As a substitute for such general terms as, the state
of affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick
man? That which comes forth or results; effect; yield; issue; product; sum
accruing from a sale, etc.; pl. of Man. To determine upon or deliberation; to
esteem; to think; to reckon. Denoting passage from one state to another; from.
facts Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving
behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting
out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. Denoting person; as, a personal
pronoun. The act or state of knowing; clear perception of fact, truth, or
duty; certain apprehension; familiar cognizance; cognition., Ere; before;
sooner than. Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to;
leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure,
setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or
procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is
construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action,
state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently,
the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony. Hence, the whole divine revelation; the
sacre&unr_; Scriptures... A Full of expression; vividly representing the
meaning or feeling meant to be conveyed; significant; emphatic; as, expressive
looks or words. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from;
as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. More
than ordinary in degree; very considerable in degree; as, to use great
caution; to be in great pain. That quality of an instrument which makes it
indicate very slight changes of condition; delicacy; as, the sensibility of a
balance, or of a thermometer.; attended Aside; as, to lay by; to put by.,
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
evincing, The capacity of emotion or feeling, as distinguished from the
intellect and the will; peculiar susceptibility of impression, pleasurable or
painful; delicacy of feeling; quick emotion or sympathy; as, sensibility to
pleasure or pain; sensibility to shame or praise; exquisite sensibility; --
often used in the plural.; as, The man or male being (or object personified to
which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of
the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already
indicated. having the sheets and blankets set in order; -- of a bed; as, is
the bed made?. a Possessing great sensibility; easily affected or moved; as, a
feeling heart. The state of being represented. Denoting the material of which
anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword
of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. The possessive of he; as, the book
is his. wrongs. With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding,
possession, or seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of
her husband. a Common to many, or the greatest number; widely spread;
prevalent; extensive, though not universal; as, a general opinion; a general
custom. Perception through the intellect; apprehension; recognition;
understanding; discernment; appreciation., Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony., Ere; before;
sooner than. To give out; to dispose of; to sell. Out of the neighborhood of;
lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid
of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being,
state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,
are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space
or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or
beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of
which anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is
one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.; The act of one who
proceeds, or who prosecutes a design or transaction; progress or movement from
one thing to another; a measure or step taken in a course of business; a
transaction; as, an illegal proceeding; a cautious or a violent proceeding.
Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind;
by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out,
commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure,
emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed
with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state,
etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the
source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the
antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to
Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun;
separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and
often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action
depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from
personal knowledge, or from testimony.; That which is connected with a
principal or greater thing; an appendage; an appurtenance. As sign of the
infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8).;
relating Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin;
he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of
the state.; Concern; participation; interposition.; -- used With reference to
space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the
air. a Something varying or differing from others of the same general kind;
one of a number of things that are akin; a sort; as, varieties of wood, land,
rocks, etc. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin,
source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble
blood. applications; as: Possession; goods; estate. virtues Denoting part of
an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of;
from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were
unproductive; most of the company. The whole; the gross; as, a contract to
build a ship by the great. Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an
agent or force; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy of
medicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer.; A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade., Possession; goods; estate.
a Containing a part only; limited; as, a particular estate, or one precedent
to an estate in remainder. Superior birth or station; high rank; elevated
character. With reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he
traveled in Italy; castles in the air. a Entitled to earnest consideration;
weighty; important; as, a great argument, truth, or principle. Three figures
taken together in numeration; thus, 140 is one degree, 222,140 two degrees.;
as, a Having great wealth, means, or resources; as, a strong house, or company
of merchants. To sprinkle with powder, or as with powder; to be sprinkle; as,
to powder the hair. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. One of the metals, colors, or furs used in armory.; a
Having great wealth, means, or resources; as, a strong house, or company of
merchants. The act or process of boiling anything in a watery fluid to extract
its virtues.; Ardent; eager; zealous; earnestly engaged; as, a strong
partisan; a strong Whig or Tory. The evening meal, at which tea is usually
served; supper. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving
by small dots. The coffee tree.. attachment brought about Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. caused; Wot not;
know not; knows not. Produced without being planted, or without human labor;
as, a spontaneous growth of wood.; as, a To strip the skin from; as, to case a
box. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to
boast of one's achievements; they talked of many things. steroid-induced The
quality or state of being weak; want of strength or firmness; lack of vigor;
want of resolution or of moral strength; feebleness..   Contrasted As sign of
the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8).
Proceeding from, or acting by, internal impulse, energy, or natural law,
without external force; as, spontaneous motion; spontaneous growth.. Used A
reeumlntrant angle; a nook or corner. specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a A
room in ship for officers or passengers. The number next following nineteen;
the sum of twelve and eight, or twice ten; twenty units or objects; a score.
See Foot. Used in specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a cabin twenty feet by
forty. Four times ten; thirty-nine and one more.. As a Expressing, or apt to
express, much; displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her nature was
demonstrative. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition
of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we,
ye, and they. (pl. The plural of that. See That.), As a relative pronoun, that
is equivalent to who or which, serving to point out, and make definite, a
person or thing spoken of, or alluded to, before, and may be either singular
or plural. usually points Beyond possession, control, or occupation; hence,
in, or into, a state of want, loss, or deprivation; -- used of office,
business, property, knowledge, etc.; as, the Democrats went out and the Whigs
came in; he put his money out at interest., A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. refers Addition; union;
accumulation., a A parson; the parish priest. Ere; before; sooner than.
Whatever may be possessed or owned; a property; -- distinguished from person.
Beforehand; antecedently; as, a plan previously formed. mentioned, Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. supposed
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have existence. imp. amp
p. p. of Understand.. To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or
might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc., as a
Expressing, or apt to express, much; displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her
nature was demonstrative., The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one
days. To cause to be preceded; to preface; to introduce; -- used with by or
with before the instrumental object. See Thee. A word used as the designation
or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a
substantive. Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as,
they met us to the number of three hundred. A interrogative pronoun, used both
substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask
for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as,
which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route
he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What,
pron., 1. As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence,
pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or
referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John. refers;
as, As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was that frightened he could say
nothing. A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and
in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual
person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was
it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to
live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. The chemical symbol for
helium. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. Before-mentioned; already spoken of or
specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style. The third person
singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense;
as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Genuine; real; not deviating from the
essential characters of a class; as, a lizard is a true reptile; a whale is a
true, but not a typical, mammal.; The plural of that. See That. With reference
to physical surrounding, personal states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am
in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live in fear. See Thee. A vessel made of
osiers or other twigs, cane, rushes, splints, or other flexible material,
interwoven. are Not blemished or impeached; fair; honorable; unsullied; as in
the phrases a good name, a good report, good repute, etc. apples. A Denoting a
question; expressed in the form of a question; as, an interrogative sentence;
an interrogative pronoun. A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the
repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he,
she, it, we, ye, and they., used The one and the other; the two; the pair,
without exception of either. In a substantive manner; in substance;
essentially. and adjectively, and Not out; within; inside. In, the
preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the
representative of an adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted
object is; as, he takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his
mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at
the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at
the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). To point out to with authority;
to instruct as a superior; to order; as, he directed them to go. and Not
direct; not straight or rectilinear; deviating from a direct line or course;
circuitous; as, an indirect road. questions, Effect; end; consequence; as, the
prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent
factions exist to the prejudice of the state. ask Indicating that in
prevention of which, or through fear of which, anything is done., Yellow or
gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. Hence: To
send or direct away; to send or direct elsewhere, as for treatment, aid,
information, decision, etc.; to make over, or pass over, to another; as, to
refer a student to an author; to refer a beggar to an officer; to refer a bill
to a committee; a court refers a matter of fact to a commissioner for
investigation, or refers a question of law to a superior tribunal. The
preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the
direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or
tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from., an Of or
pertaining to one only; peculiar to, or characteristic of, a single person or
thing; distinctive; as, individual traits of character; individual exertions;
individual peculiarities. A character or part, as in a play; a specific kind
or manifestation of individual character, whether in real life, or in literary
or dramatic representation; an assumed character. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A diminutive or slighted
object; any object viewed as merely existing; -- often used in pity or
contempt. among By itself; severally. Denoting the agent, or person by whom,
or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. a exhibiting refinement and
high character; as, a class act.  Opposite of low-class; as, A interrogative
pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect
questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among
several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the
house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die? 
See the Note under What, pron., 1. An adult male person; a grown-up male
person, as distinguished from a woman or a child. The third person singular of
the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he
is a man.  See Be. As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or
after a substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to
walk).? A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or
clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a
sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference,
however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and
genders, and was formerly used of persons. An adult female person; a grown-up
female person, as distinguished from a man or a child; sometimes, any female
person. The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative
mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. As an indefinite
nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains.? A interrogative
pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect
questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among
several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the
house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die? 
See the Note under What, pron., 1. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. A structure intended or used as a habitation or shelter for animals
of any kind; but especially, a building or edifice for the habitation of man;
a dwelling place, a mansion.? Any one; the man or person; -- used
indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. asked A relative
pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes
with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a
following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to
something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was
formerly used of persons. The course or way which is traveled or passed, or is
to be passed; a passing; a course; a road or path; a march. Man; a male; any
male person; -- in this sense used substantively. Used as an auxiliary verb,
to express a conditional or contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an
actual fact; also, to express moral obligation (see Shall); e. g.: they should
have come last week; if I should go; I should think you could go. To take
hold; to fix upon anything; to have the natural or intended effect; to
accomplish a purpose; as, he was inoculated, but the virus did not take.; A
relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but
sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to
a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to
something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was
formerly used of persons. The third person singular of the substantive verb
be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. In
the highest degree; beyond all others., In a very general way, and with
innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their
remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs
with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that
of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these
remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. Still in active
play; -- of a ball being used in a game; as, a live ball. Ere; before; sooner
than. Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to
hand. A perforated block, commonly of hardened steel used in connection with a
punch, for punching holes, as through plates, or blanks from plates, or for
forming cups or capsules, as from sheet metal, by drawing.?  To have the power
of sight, or of perceiving by the proper organs; to possess or employ the
sense of vision; as, he sees distinctly. See Thee. A short informal letter; a
billet. Denoting relation to something that comprehends or includes, that
represents or designates, that furnishes a cover, pretext, pretense, or the
like; as, he betrayed him under the guise of friendship; Morpheus is
represented under the figure of a boy asleep. As an exclamatory word: -- (a)
Used absolutely or independently; -- often with a question following., pron.,
1. delights To plow. [Obs.] See Ear, v. t.; On the fore part; in front, or in
the direction of the front; -- opposed to in the rear.; In the western United
States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to
settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first
settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing
prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair
advantage. Then. See Then.. commands admiration; High; lofty; towering;
prominent. above others; Standing out, or projecting, beyond the line surface
of something; jutting; protuberant; in high relief; as, a prominent figure on
a vase. among The plural of that. See That. One; any; one. are High; lofty;
towering; prominent.; Beyond the power or influence of; too great or firm to
be subdued or affected by; -- with to. With reference to movement or tendency
toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to
put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in
God. An excellent or valuable quality; that by which any one excels or is
eminent; a virtue.; Eminently excellent; exceeding others., A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. The act of gaining
possession; a seizing; seizure; apprehension. The act or state of preceding or
going before in order of time; priority; as, one event has precedence of
another. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it
contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of
water., others; In a rare manner or degree; seldom; not often; as, things
rarely seen., Eminently excellent; exceeding others. others To inclose; to
take in; to harvest. malady or disease; especially in the phrase king's evil,
the scrofula., A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may
write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not
both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.
 It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of
either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into
trade. One who is in office; -- the opposite of out. Bade. qualities; as,
Eminent above others; prominent among those who are eminent; superior in
excellence; surpassing, or taking precedence of, others; rarely, surpassing
others in evil, or in bad qualities; as, preeumlminent in guilt. With
privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin;
as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. The
criminality and consequent exposure to punishment resulting from willful
disobedience of law, or from morally wrong action; the state of one who has
broken a moral or political law; crime; criminality; offense against right..
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Condition of prosperity or grandeur; wealthy or prosperous
circumstances; social importance. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. Superior birth or station; high rank;
elevated character. Denoting passage from one state to another; from.
Lifetime; mortal existence. Sort; type; class; nature; style; character;
fashion; manner; variety; description; as, there are several kinds of
eloquence, of style, and of music; many kinds of government; various kinds of
soil, etc., Not out; within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes an adverb by
omission of its object, leaving it as the representative of an adverbial
phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is; as, he takes in the
situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans were in (i.
e., in office); in at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or into the
head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in (i. e.,
into the house). any Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or
connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days
of Herod. Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. Different; diverse;
several; manifold; as, men of various names; various occupations; various
colors. senses; The materialization or apparition of a spirit; -- a phenomenon
claimed to be seen by spiritualists. Denoting the material of which anything
is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of
steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. Proceeding from, or characterized by,
goodness, gentleness, or benevolence; as, a kind act. Expressive of great
sensibility; attended by, or evincing, sensibility; as, he made a feeling
representation of his wrongs. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing
or engraving by small dots. The state or the manner of being disposed or
arranged; distribution; arrangement; order; as, the disposition of the trees
in an orchard; the disposition of the several parts of an edifice. The
practice of doing good; active goodness, kindness, or charity; bounty
springing from purity and goodness.. Before; sooner than.; Under the
cognizance or jurisdiction of.; In the western United States, one who settles
on government land before it is legally open to settlement in order to gain
the prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is
opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or
anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage. Then. See
Then.. Ordering; regulation; adjustment; management; government; direction.; A
mechanical agent; that from which useful mechanical energy is derived; as,
water power; steam power; hand power, etc. Denoting part of an aggregate or
whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as,
of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most
of the company. Ordering; regulation; adjustment; management; government;
direction.. Space or degree to which a thing is extended; hence, superficies;
compass; bulk; size; length; as, an extent of country or of line; extent of
information or of charity.; To apply a limit to, or set a limit for; to
terminate, circumscribe, or restrict, by a limit or limits; as, to limit the
acreage of a crop; to limit the issue of paper money; to limit one's ambitions
or aspirations; to limit the meaning of a word.; A line or space of the staff.
Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source,
descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. The
act of comprehending, containing, or comprising; inclusion.; A small body
suspended within the  cytoplasm of a cell. as Remote from purpose; contrary to
design or wishes; as, far be it from me to justify cruelty. as; as, The plural
of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun
proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. imp.
amp p. p. of Mete, to measure. The persons speaking, regarded as an object;
ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. Apposition; connection;
antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand. A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. To reckon as one of a
collection or multitude. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated
or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as, they went of
their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. One more
than two; two and one. Ten times ten; five score; as, a hundred dollars..
another; affection; See Thee. That which makes, or helps to make, anything
such as it is; anything belonging to a subject, or predicable of it;
distinguishing property, characteristic, or attribute; peculiar power,
capacity, or virtue; distinctive trait; as, the tones of a flute differ from
those of a violin in quality; the great quality of a statesman. A particle
that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may
do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to
either.  You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a
series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may
study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A chair with
a canopy above it, often standing on a dais; a seat of dignity; also, the
canopy itself. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to
attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of
courage; the gate of heaven. That which exists in any form, whether it be
material or spiritual, actual or ideal; living existence, as distinguished
from a thing without life; as, a human being; spiritual beings. Physically
weak; not hardly or able to endure hardship; immature; effeminate. (With
reference to character, reach, scope, or influence considered as establishing
a limitation; as, to be in one's favor. any To perceive by the senses; to
recognize. In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging
to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: By
that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives;
as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform.
adjective).; as, The pope or his court at Rome; as, to appeal to the see of
Rome. The objective case of thou. See Thou.. A The sense by which the mind,
through certain nerves of the body, perceives external objects, or certain
states of the body itself; that one of the five senses which resides in the
general nerves of sensation distributed over the body, especially in its
surface; the sense of touch; nervous sensibility to external objects. Denoting
the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by.
Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, etc., which retain the old declensional
endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems have held the original
endings most firmly, and are called strong; the stems in -n are called weak
other constant stems conform, or are irregular. attachment brought about or
caused; not spontaneous; as, a case of steroid-induced weakness.   Contrasted
to spontaneous. Near; in the neighborhood; present; as, there was no person by
at the time. As an adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the
pronoun, but is followed by a noun. A interrogative pronoun, used both
substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask
for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as,
which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route
he should take; which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What,
pron., 1. delights Ere; before; sooner than. commands admiration; Eminent
above others; prominent among those who are eminent; superior in excellence;
surpassing, or taking precedence of, others; rarely, surpassing others in
evil, or in bad qualities; as, preeumlminent in guilt. The state or quality of
being kind, in any of its various senses; manifestation of kind feeling or
disposition beneficence. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. Act of devotedness or devoutness; manifestation of
strong attachment; act of worship; prayer. Accompaniment; as, she sang to his
guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. another; affection; The quality
or state of being tender (in any sense of the adjective).; as, See Thee. Due
gratitude and reverence to God. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space
or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the
appointed time. brothers and sisters. Denoting That which refers to something;
a specific direction of the attention; as, a reference in a text-book. In many
phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning,
or is used elliptically. a An inanimate object, in distinction from a living
being; any lifeless material.; about; That in which one is concerned or
interested; concern; affair; interest.; relating Accord; adaptation; as, an
occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind.; as, In many phrases,
and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. Act of boasting; vaunting or bragging. Denoting that from which
anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is
of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. one's achievements; The plural of
he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun
proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed.
talked Denoting passage from one state to another; from. A retinue of
servants; a household. things. brothers and sisters. books; A Any marked
prominence or projecting part, especially of a bone; anapophysis. Denoting
possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the
apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of
heaven. That which is executed or accomplished; effect; effective work; --
usually with do. Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving
the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral
matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play,
by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as,
by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc. A compound relative
or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which,
those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will. By that;
by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the
longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. lands and See
Good, n., 3. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as,
within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. a One who
owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to creditor. are Highly
regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a valued friend. and
delivered Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled.
See Thee. One who gives credit in business matters; hence, one to whom money
is due; -- correlative to debtor..; Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar;
they danced to the music of a piano. To ask to be appointed guardiln for, or
to aso to havo a guardian appointed for., Ere; before; sooner than. As sign of
the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the
infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a
preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good
to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But
it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in
situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is
direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die
for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the
infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the
prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8).
Exertion for the sake of training or improvement whether physical,
intellectual, or moral; practice to acquire skill, knowledge, virtue,
perfectness, grace, etc. functions, In the house; in doors; as, the master is
within. a A certain number or quantity. Confined within limits; narrow;
circumscribed; restricted; as, our views of nature are very limited. Tract,
part, or space, lying about and including anything; neighborhood; vicinity;
sphere.; as, a limiting An American fish; the silversides..; A word placed
before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. To indicate the presence
of game by fixed and steady look, as certain hunting dogs do. A particle that
marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do
one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either. 
You may ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of
words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. A small space or distance;
as, it is but a step. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating
origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of
noble blood. The act of moving forward; a proceeding in a course; motion
onward. As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined,
governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect
object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto
going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life
pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and
adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an
individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it?
which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take;
which is best, to live or to die?  See the Note under What, pron., 1. a A
shoot or bud of a plant; a polyp or zooid of the compound Hydrozoa, Anthozoa,
etc.; also, an individual, in the narrowest sense, among the higher animals.
3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. arrived; Strong-scented; rancid; musty; as, oil
of a rank smell; rank-smelling rue. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. The particular place, or kind of
situation, in which a species naturally occurs; a habitat. To inclose; to take
in; to harvest. Enjoyment in the right use of the powers; especially, a
spiritual existence; happiness in the favor of God; heavenly felicity.; To
indicate the position of; to place.. Denoting The state or quality of being
near; -- used in the various senses of the adjective. A particle that marks an
alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the
things at your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may
ride either to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or
propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or
medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. To place at a distance or
remotely., One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things,
but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. The specific signification of
in is situation or place with respect to surrounding, environment,
encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying being, resting, or moving
within limits, or within circumstances or conditions of any kind conceived of
as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly or in part. In its
different applications, it approaches some of the meanings of, and sometimes
is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and among. One of the
intervals, or open places, between the lines of the staff. Yellow or gold
color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. To appoint the
time for; to bring, begin, or perform at the proper season or time; as, he
timed his appearance rightly.; Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing
proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used
whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,
occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to
be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time
at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning;
also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which
anything proceeds; -- the antithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one
hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side;
light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have
all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse;
the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men
judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.; as, In the inner
or interior part of; inside of; not without; as, within doors. a An
association of sports teams that establishes rules of play, decides questions
of membership in the league, and organizes matches between the member teams. 
In some cases a sports league is called a conference, as in the National
Football Conference. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. See
Thee. A farm or farmstead; also, a court or farmyard.; In the house; in doors;
as, the master is within. an A measure of distance traveled. Denoting passage
from one state to another; from. See Thee. appointed Hour of travail,
delivery, or parturition.. A The form of anything; shape; outline; appearance.
Near to, while passing; hence, from one to the other side of; past; as, to go
by a church. A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun
or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a
sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference,
however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and
genders, and was formerly used of persons. A word placed before nouns to limit
or individualize their meaning. The title by which any person or thing is
known or designated; a distinctive specific appellation, whether of an
individual or a class. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating
origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of
noble blood. a Possessing, or being in a state of, heath and soundness;
healthy; sound; well. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. To
incite; to entice; to urge; to constrain; to oblige. Indicating that instead
of which something else controls in the performing of an action, or that in
spite of which anything is done, occurs, or is; hence, equivalent to
notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally followed by all, aught, anything,
etc. a To leave; to quit., Ere; before; sooner than. To introduce a clause
employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate
nominative of a verb. During; in the course of. a Quarter; region; district;
-- usually in the plural. Indicating the space or time through which an action
or state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of. a
Containing the total amount, number, etc.; comprising all the parts; free from
deficiency; all; total; entire; as, the whole earth; the whole solar system;
the whole army; the whole nation., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. a Serving to define or restrict; limiting;
determining; as, the definite article. The measure of the relation between
quantities or things of the same kind; that abstract species of quantity which
is capable of being expressed by figures; numerical value. One who takes, or
that which is said on, the affrimative side; that which is said in favor of
some one or something; -- the antithesis of against, and commonly used in
connection with it. an Boundless; infinite..; A Not prolonged in duration; not
extended in time; short; as, after a small space. A figure that has length,
breadth, and thickness; any solid figure. suspended In the inner or interior
part of; inside of; not without; as, within doors. See Thee.  The substance of
the body of a cell, as distinguished from the karyoplasma, or substance of the
nucleus. During; in the course of. a A small religious house attached to a
monastery or convent.. as Not conformable; discrepant; repugnant; as, a
practice so widely distant from Christianity. With reference to a whole which
includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the
first regiment in the army. any That which is imposed by directing; a guiding
or authoritative instruction; prescription; order; command; as, he grave
directions to the servants.; Wot not; know not; knows not. To draw near; to
approach.; Separate; abstracted.; In a mutual manner. separated In the
neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along with; as, come
and sit by me. a Of large scope; comprehensive; liberal; broad; as, wide
views; a wide understanding. To arrange or adjust the spaces in or between;
as, to space words, lines, or letters. Ere; before; sooner than. A peculiar
species of execution upon debts due to the crown, under which the lands and
goods of the debtor may be seized to secure payment.. as; as, By that; by how
much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer
we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. The plural number;
that form of a word which expresses or denotes more than one; a word in the
plural form. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to
attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of
courage; the gate of heaven. Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense
used substantively., This or that female; the woman understood or referred to;
the animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine, which was
spoken of., Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by
small dots. As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs,
the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick man?. The
plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a
pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent
expressed. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. Not ever; not
at any time; at no time, whether past, present, or future. used adjectively,
The buttocks; as, get up off your butt and get to work; -- used as a
euphemism, less objectionable than ass. always as a A word used instead of a
noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English
are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. Rightly so called; strictly
considered; as, Greece proper; the garden proper., and Former; sometime.
refers As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined,
governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect
object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto
going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life
pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the
infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where
the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I
love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's
country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage
formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see?
(Matt. xi. 8). persons Outside of the house; out of doors. an antecedent
Communicated in words.. the sixteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a
nonvocal consonant whose form and value come from the Latin, into which
language the letter was brought, through the ancient Greek, from the
Phoelignician, its probable origin being Egyptian.  Etymologically P is most
closely related to b, f, and v; as hobble, hopple; father, paternal;
recipient, receive. See B, F, and M.. the sixteenth letter of the English
alphabet, is a nonvocal consonant whose form and value come from the Latin,
into which language the letter was brought, through the ancient Greek, from
the Phoelignician, its probable origin being Egyptian.  Etymologically P is
most closely related to b, f, and v; as hobble, hopple; father, paternal;
recipient, receive. See B, F, and M.. Denoting the material of which anything
is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of
steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. To find the quantity, dimensions, or
capacity of, by any rule or standard; to measure., In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. A visionary scheme; a wild conceit; an idle fancy; a vagary; a
revery; -- in this sense, applied to an imaginary or anticipated state of
happiness; as, a dream of bliss; the dream of his youth.. A word placed before
nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. persons Public declamation;
oratory., regarded as an That toward which the mind, or any of its activities,
is directed; that on which the purpose are fixed as the end of action or
effort; that which is sought for; goal; end; aim; motive; final cause.; An
emphasized form of the pronoun of the first person plural; -- used as a
subject, usually with we; also, alone in the predicate, in the nominative or
the objective case.; -- See Thee. Unbiased; unprejudiced; fair; uninfluenced
by personal feelings or personal interests; considering only the facts of a
situation unrelated to the observer; -- of judgments, opinions, evaluations,
conclusions, reasoning processes. A box and its contents; the quantity
contained in a box; as, a case of goods; a case of instruments. Denoting
passage from one state to another; from. The plural nominative case of the
pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in speaking or
writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the subject of an
action expressed by a verb.. A seat; a site; a place where sovereign power is
exercised. The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the
word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of
which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb.. As To
assign or convey formally; -- used with away. Denoting that from which
anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is
of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. An infinitive form of the verb; a verb in
the infinitive mood; the infinitive mood., In a very general way, and with
innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their
remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs
with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that
of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these
remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to
ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty
to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. See Have. At first;
at the origin; at the time of formation or costruction; as, a book originally
written by another hand. See Thee. To behave toward; to act with regard to; to
treat; as, to use a beast cruelly. Denoting reference to a thing; about;
concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements; they talked of
many things. A load; a heavy burden; hence, a certain weight or measure,
generally estimated at 4,000 lbs., but varying for different articles and in
different countries. In England, a last of codfish, white herrings, meal, or
ashes, is twelve barrels; a last of corn, ten quarters, or eighty bushels, in
some parts of England, twenty-one quarters; of gunpowder, twenty-four barrels,
each containing 100 lbs; of red herrings, twenty cades, or 20,000; of hides,
twelve dozen; of leather, twenty dickers; of pitch and tar, fourteen barrels;
of wool, twelve sacks; of flax or feathers, 1,700 lbs. defined, Requiring a
particular case. A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their
meaning. An infinitive form of the verb; a verb in the infinitive mood; the
infinitive mood. as a Consisting in, or having to do with, words only; dealing
with words rather than with the ideas intended to be conveyed; as, a verbal
critic; a verbal change. A word used as the designation or appellation of a
creature or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive., and
syntactically connecting sentences or elements of a sentence. As a substitute
for such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and
the like; as, how is it with the sick man? as Not reaching the end aimed at by
the most plain and direct method; as, an indirect proof, demonstration, etc.
Anything which exists and which has attributes; distinguished from attributes,
processes, and relations. With denotes or expresses some situation or relation
of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like. a In the
direction toward which stars appear to move. See Following, 2. A word; a
vocable. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small
dots. adjective; The commoner kind of frankincense, or that obtained from the
Norway spruce, the long-leaved pine, and other conifers., In a state of
preparation for immediate action; so as to need no delay. Accompaniment; as,
she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. Something that
goes or is successful; a success; as, he made a go of it; also, an agreement.,
The nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a
speaker or writer denotes himself..E is the third tone of the model diatonic
scale. Eflat  (E flat) is a tone which is intermediate between D and E..,
Prepared for what one is about to do or experience; equipped or supplied with
what is needed for some act or event; prepared for immediate movement or
action; as, the troops are ready to march; ready for the journey. Until; till.
The act of moving in any manner; traveling; as, the going is bad.; To manure;
to improve. Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a
state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit
to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising
to wealth and honor. To corrode, as metal, by rust; to consume the flesh, as a
cancer; to waste or wear away; to destroy gradually; to cause to disappear.,
In our old authors, I was often used for ay (or aye), yes, which is pronounced
nearly like it..E is the third tone of the model diatonic scale. Eflat  (E
flat) is a tone which is intermediate between D and E.., Real; actual;
serious; as in the phrases in good earnest; in good sooth. Indicating the
antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or inducement
accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of anything; that on
account of which a thing is or is done. The act of tasking food; the act of
consuming or corroding.; In our old authors, I was often used for ay (or aye),
yes, which is pronounced nearly like it. To cause; to make; -- with an
infinitive. Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, my body;
my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the book is mine. See Mine. The
most that can be; the farthest limit; the greatest power, degree, or effort;
as, he has done his utmost; try your utmost. In many phrases, and in
connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used
elliptically. An open way in an ice field. Of or belonging to me; -- used
always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate;
as, the book is mine. See Mine. Of human beings: The union of the soul and
body; also, the duration of their union; sometimes, the deathless quality or
existence of the soul; as, man is a creature having an immortal life. In a
pleasant manner.. Only; solely; merely. As a substance for any noun of the
neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. 3d pers. sing. pres. of
Have. To arrive in sight; to be manifest; to appear. Hence, it indicates
motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or
anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or
action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. To take
place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. See Thee. almost a data
structure that does not change during the course of execution of a program. 
It may be a number, a string, or a more complex data structure; --  contrasted
with variable. To set or appoint beforehand; to settle or establish
antecedently. In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. By that; by how much; by so much; on
that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin,
the more difficult it is to reform. An infinitive form of the verb; a verb in
the infinitive mood; the infinitive mood., As might not be expected; --
serving to introduce what is unexpected or less expected. A reeumlntrant
angle; a nook or corner. situations To what or which place; hence, to what
goal, result, or issue; whither; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as,
where are you going? The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to
the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural
(they, their or theirs, them). 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. Not any; not one;
none; as, yes, we have no bananas; -- often used as a quantifier. Of or
pertaining to a preposition; of the nature of a preposition. That which is
signified, whether by act lanquage; signification; sense; import; as, the
meaning of a hint., as Whether. A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. In the manner of an infinitive mood. The third
person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present
tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. See Syndicalism, below. Sight; show;
appearance; aspect. Ere; before; sooner than. To cause to undergo; as, to
subject a substance to a white heat; to subject a person to a rigid test.; To
this degree or extent; so far; so; as, thus wise; thus peaceble; thus bold.,
As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc. A thin silk stuff. Character;
condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled. To gain knowledge or
information of; to ascertain by inquiry, study, or investigation; to receive
instruction concerning; to fix in the mind; to acquire understanding of, or
skill; as, to learn the way; to learn a lesson; to learn dancing; to learn to
skate; to learn the violin; to learn the truth about something., The
nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a
speaker or writer denotes himself..The fifth letter of the English alphabet..,
I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its form from the
Phoelignician, through the Latin and the Greek. The Phoelignician letter was
probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was nearly the same as that of
the Italian I, or long e as in mete. Etymologically I is most closely related
to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E.
thin, AS. thornynne; E. dominion, donjon, dungeon. A thin silk stuff. The
knowledge or skill received by instruction or study; acquired knowledge or
ideas in any branch of science or literature; erudition; literature; science;
as, he is a man of great learning.; Hence, it indicates motion, course, or
tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of
being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going
to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. A hollow internally threaded
screw-cutting tool, made in one piece or composed of several parts, for
forming screw threads on bolts, etc.; one of the separate parts which make up
such a tool. In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of,
in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takes place. one's
Pertaining, or peculiar, to one's own country. The third person singular of
the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he
is a man.  See Be. To make noble; to ennoble., The nominative case of the
pronoun of the first person; the word with which a speaker or writer denotes
himself..The fifth letter of the English alphabet.., By that; by how much; by
so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we
continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. In the act of dying;
destined to death; mortal; perishable; as, dying bodies. Indicating the
antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or inducement
accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of anything; that on
account of which a thing is or is done. one's Pertaining, or peculiar, to
one's own country.. To what or which place; hence, to what goal, result, or
issue; whither; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, where are you
going? See Thee. An infinitive form of the verb; a verb in the infinitive
mood; the infinitive mood. denotes A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. A preliminary sketch; an outline or pattern of
the main features of something to be executed, as of a picture, a building, or
a decoration; a delineation; a plan. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in
drawing or engraving by small dots. To have a purpose or intention; to
discourse., Serviceable; suited; adapted; suitable; of use; to be relied upon;
-- followed especially by for. Experience. In time past, either in time
immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old; heretofore.
allowed By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. prefixing Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a
number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had
some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company.
Indicating the space or time through which an action or state extends; hence,
during; in or through the space or time of. Character; condition of being;
purpose subserved or office filled. See Thee. Hence, it indicates motion,
course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything
capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as,
he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor.; as, As an
interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or
things; as, what is this? what did you say? what poem is this? what child is
lost? Course; way; path; journey; direction. Yea; yes. Beyond the limits of
concealment, confinement, privacy, constraint, etc., actual or figurative;
hence, not in concealment, constraint, etc., in, or into, a state of freedom,
openness, disclosure, publicity, etc.; a matter of public knowledge; as, the
sun shines out; he laughed out, to be out at the elbows; the secret has leaked
out, or is out; the disease broke out on his face; the book is out. Indicating
that in prevention of which, or through fear of which, anything is done.
Figuratively: To have intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to know; to
understand; to discern; -- often followed by a preposition, as through, or
into.? (See Matte.. The Roman number symbolizing the value eleven.  Used after
a noun it may symbolize the ordinal number; as, Superbowl XI.. 8). Aside; as,
to lay by; to put by. As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was that
frightened he could say nothing.; Against. By what name, designation, or
title. To a great degree or extent; greatly; abundantly; far; nearly.; With,
as means, way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of; through; through
the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by
commerce; to take by force. Is it thus? do you mean what you say? -- with an
upward tone; as, do you say he refuses? So? High in rank or position.;
Forward, in succession; as, from father to son, from the son to the grandson,
and so on. As an adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the
pronoun, but is followed by a noun. account; -- used In time past; previously;
already. comparatives; as, A word placed before nouns to limit or
individualize their meaning. One who longs for anything. The plural nominative
case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in
speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the
subject of an action expressed by a verb. To protract or extend in duration;
to preserve or persist in; to cease not. One who is in office; -- the opposite
of out. A sin offering; a sacrifice for sin., A word placed before nouns to
limit or individualize their meaning. A root. Hard to do or to make; beset
with difficulty; attended with labor, trouble, or pains; not easy; arduous. As
a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that
which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which
apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John. The third person singular of
the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he
is a man.  See Be. In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of
application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect
object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following
noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it
contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were
addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance
sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our
parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. To return to a good state; to amend
or correct one's own character or habits; as, a man of settled habits of vice
will seldom reform.. See Thee. An instrument by means of which size or
quantity is measured, as a graduated line, rod, vessel, or the like. Denoting
identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to
the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome;
the Island of Cuba. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used
before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it
is to reform. The act of relating or telling; also, that which is related;
recital; account; narration; narrative; as, the relation of historical events.
In intermediate relation to, in respect to time, quantity, or degree; as,
between nine and ten o'clock. quantities A particle that marks an alternative;
as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at
your pleasure, but not both.  It corresponds to either.  You may ride either
to London or to Windsor.  It often connects a series of words or propositions,
presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity,
or he may enter into trade. things Denoting passage from one state to another;
from. By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before
comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to
reform. Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or the like; not differing in
character or in the quality or qualities compared; corresponding; not
discordant; similar; like. Nature; natural instinct or disposition.; To
introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently
preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. abstract A group of individuals
agreeing in common attributes, and designated by a common name; a conception
subordinated to another conception, called a genus, or generic conception,
from which it differs in containing or comprehending more attributes, and
extending to fewer individuals.  Thus, man is a species, under animal as a
genus; and man, in its turn, may be regarded as a genus with respect to
European, American, or the like, as species. Denoting part of an aggregate or
whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as,
of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most
of the company. The attribute of being so much, and not more or less; the
property of being measurable, or capable of increase and decrease,
multiplication and division; greatness; and more concretely, that which
answers the question ldquoHow much?rdquo; measure in regard to bulk or amount;
determinate or comparative dimensions; measure; amount; bulk; extent; size. Of
what sort or kind; what; what a; who. The third person singular of the
substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a
man.  See Be. Capacious; large; comprehensive. Denoting that by which a person
or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due
to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. That which exists in any form, whether it be material or spiritual,
actual or ideal; living existence, as distinguished from a thing without life;
as, a human being; spiritual beings. Precisely and clearly expressed, leaving
nothing to implication.  Opposite of implicit. Out of the common path; aside;
-- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or
incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as,
by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in
composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design,
by-interest, etc. figures; Belonging to number; denoting number; consisting in
numbers; expressed by numbers, and not letters; as, numerical characters; a
numerical equation; a numerical statement. Esteem; regard.. Denoting To
introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the
subject or predicate nominative of a verb. Near to, while passing; hence, from
one to the other side of; past; as, to go by a church. A interrogative
pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect
questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among
several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the
house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die? 
See the Note under What, pron., 1. a To represent as a person; to personify;
to impersonate. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving
by small dots. Clothes; furniture; appurtenances; luggage; as, to pack or
store one's things. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. actuated
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
motivated by an irresistable compulsion.; also, See Thee. That from which
anything comes forth, regarded as its cause or origin; the person from whom
anything originates; first cause. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or
thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. a To propose, as an aim, to one's
self; to determine upon, as some end or object to be accomplished; to intend;
to design; to resolve; -- often followed by an infinitive or dependent clause.
Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
action; Directly; exactly; as, a due east course. Extent; limit; degree of
comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three
hundred.; as, The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively,
but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an
antecedent expressed. imp. amp p. p. of Wend; -- now obsolete except as the
imperfect of go, with which it has no etymological connection.  See Go. In a
general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to;
concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: The possessive case of
the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. Belonging to;
belonging exclusively or especially to; peculiar; -- most frequently following
a possessive pronoun, as my, our, thy, your, his, her, its, their, in order to
emphasize or intensify the idea of property, peculiar interest, or exclusive
ownership; as, my own father; my own composition; my own idea; at my own
price. The choice or determination of one who has authority; a decree; a
command; discretionary pleasure.; A negative vote; one who votes in the
negative; as, to call for the ayes and noes; the noes have it. The material
organized substance of an animal, whether living or dead, as distinguished
from the spirit, or vital principle; the physical person. an obs. form of
began, imp. amp p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in old poetry. [See Gan.] To
propose; to recommend; specifically, to propose formally for consideration and
determination, in a deliberative assembly; to submit, as a resolution to be
adopted; as, to move to adjourn. Denoting that by which a person or thing is
actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; due to; as,
they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of
necessity. The neuter reflexive pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in
itself; it stands by itself.; Any one; the man or person; -- used
indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. imp. of Do. The
neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he
and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs,
them). Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with;
as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. The
negation of freedom in voluntary action; the subjection of all phenomena,
whether material or spiritual, to inevitable causation; necessitarianism.. A
That which is thrown into a common fund; hence, an appointed or accustomed
duty. representing A symbol representing three units, as 3 or iii. units, as 3
Ere; before; sooner than. iii. One more than nine; twice five. times One more
than nine; twice five.; The number next greater than four, and less than six;
five units or objects. To keep the score in a game; to act as scorer.; as, a
The product of ten multiplied by ten, or the number of ten times ten; a
collection or sum, consisting of ten times ten units or objects; five score.
Also, a symbol representing one hundred units, as 100 or C. dollars.. A In a
very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects
transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns,
and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action.
Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or
appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us
keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful
to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
To pass from one state to another; to result as an effect from a cause; to
become; as, to grow pale. Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or
engraving by small dots. To pass from one state to another; to enter into some
state or condition, by a change from another state, or by assuming or
receiving new properties or qualities, additional matter, or a new character.
Rare; not dense or thick; -- applied to fluids or soft mixtures; as, thin
blood; thin broth; thin air.; -- used To denote a close or direct relation of
opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. A part; a portion; -- used
pronominally, and followed sometimes by of; as, some of our provisions.
adverbs, as Not in the position to score in playing a game; not in the state
or turn of the play for counting or gaining scores., away, etc.; as, Of or
pertaining to geology, or the science of the earth. pl. of Stratum. Having
little thickness or extent from one surface to its opposite; as, a thin plate
of metal; thin paper; a thin board; a thin covering. One who, or that which,
is out; especially, one who is out of office; -- generally in the plural., As
a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc.. The fifth letter of the English
alphabet.., In degree. To become or appear less or smaller; to lessen; as, the
apparent size of an object diminishes as we recede from it. With reference to
movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes
equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in
death; to put our trust in God. The quality or state of being thick (in any of
the senses of the adjective). To; unto; towards; -- used of material objects.
The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a
pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent
expressed. To cease to be or exist; as, the epidemic has disappeared.. See
Thee. Finished; brought to perfection; refined; hence, free from impurity;
excellent; superior; elegant; worthy of admiration; accomplished; beautiful.,
Not harsh or offensive to the sight; not glaring; pleasing to the eye; not
exciting by intensity of color or violent contrast; as, soft hues or tints. To
pass a thread through the eye of; as, to thread a needle. produced Near; in
the neighborhood; present; as, there was no person by at the time. Different;
diverse; several; manifold; as, men of various names; various occupations;
various colors. An officinal mixture or compound powder of any kind; esp., one
used for making an aromatic tea or tisane; a tea mixture. Denoting that from
which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as,
he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. caterpillars With reference to
space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the
air. The act or process of giving form or shape to anything; as, in
shipbuilding, the exact shaping of partially shaped timbers. See Thee. cocoons
In the inner part; inwardly; internally. A compound relative or indefinite
pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the .
. . which, and the like; as, take which you will. A word placed before nouns
to limit or individualize their meaning. To work slowly, gradually, and
secretly. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be. inclosed In
the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as, during life; during
the space of a year. See Thee. Any insect in that stage of its metamorphosis
which usually immediately precedes the adult, or imago, stage. Rank;
condition; quality; as, the state of honor., In an especial manner; chiefly;
particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree. In an elliptical sentence to
introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise,
indignation, or the like. produced Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as,
the procession has gone by; a bird flew by. See Thee. larvae Denoting that by
which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose
or action; due to; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of
itself; he did it of necessity. A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm
moth. See Silkworm. mori. The substance or matter of which anything is made or
may be made. A compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one
which, whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as,
take which you will. The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in
the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.  See Be.
Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a
piano. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday. worked
Inclining up; tending or going up; upward; as, an up look; an up grade; the up
train. To inclose; to take in; to harvest. any The whole course of proceedings
in a cause real or personal, civil or criminal, from the beginning to the end
of the suit; strictly, the means used for bringing the defendant into court to
answer to the action; -- a generic term for writs of the class called
judicial. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or
appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent
of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. To work, as raw or partly
wrought materials, into suitable forms for use; as, to manufacture wool,
cotton, silk, or iron... adventures.
